You know what a 401k plan is. Now, tonight I may have to explain it at some length, but this morning we're just going to go from there.
The other thing I want to let you in on is that every Tuesday when you're preaching, Carol Gailey gives you a call.
And she says, hey, what's the title of your sermon?
And so you try to be real clever and you come up with something snappy like the upside-down 401k plan.
And then from Tuesday onward, you're faced with the daunting task of somehow working that clever idea into what you actually write.
And in this case, that was kind of hard.
So you're going to see the upside-down 401K
between the lines of what I preach on this morning,
if not overtly.
So don't let the title throw you.
I want to go back one week
before we get really into the meat
of what we're doing this morning
and thank Andy Fischbach for a fantastic job
that he did last week.
I also want to thank him
for doing Jesus' words justice.
That's the best thing anyone can say about you
when you talk for Jesus.
And most of all, I want to thank Jesus
for ripping the lid off of our pretenses last week.
So let's review.
You've seen them in action, I'm sure.
Play actors, I call them.
Treating prayer meeting and street corner alike as a stage.
Acting compassionate as long as someone is watching.
Playing to the crowds.
They get applause, true.
But that's all they get.
But when you help someone out,
Don't think about how it looks.
Just do it, quietly and unobtrusively.
This is the way your God, who conceived you in love,
working behind the scenes, helps you out.
A lot of you are thinking, well, that sounds vaguely familiar,
but that's not the version I'm used to.
This is the message.
It's a paraphrased version of the New Testament.
And I'm going to be using it almost exclusively this morning.
So for those of you who knew this in a different form,
in the NIV, in the King James Version,
discover it anew.
Discover it with this new translation,
because I think it will help you sort of see it with fresh eyes.
I know it helps me in that regard.
Okay.
Now getting into last week's message just briefly,
if you think about last week's words, where were they aimed?
They were aimed between the eyes of people like me,
and people like Kirk and people like David and people like Andy.
They were aimed between the eyes of people
who are used to getting up in front of everyone
and saying pretty things and praying on people's behalf.
But Jesus is serving up a cold cup of coffee to people like us.
He's saying, reality check,
that little religious dog and pony show you just pulled off,
I hope everybody else listening was impressed
because I wasn't all that thrilled with it.
If anyone praised you for it, you better enjoy it,
because that's all the credit you're going to get.
And all of us up-in-front types are thinking,
ouch, I kind of resemble that remark sometimes.
Now, for the rest of you, you're thinking,
you know, you couldn't pay me to draw that kind of attention to myself.
Never going to happen.
Pray up in front of others? No, not me.
So if that's you, congratulations.
You dodged the bullet this morning.
Neither God nor anyone else will ever accuse you
of making a religious spectacle of yourself.
Congratulations.
On the other hand,
there's more to living the good life
that God prescribes,
more to living in what we call
the upside-down kingdom
than just keeping a low profile.
Some of us might be tempted
to feed our egos and starve our souls
by getting lots of attention here.
You know, there's a fine line between,
hey, good sermon, pastor,
and thinking,
hmm, that was a good sermon, wasn't it?
But, but there are more ways than one
to mess up our lives.
There are more ways than one to neglect our God
and to forget about our relationship with him.
And a lot of these other ways are paths
that aren't just common to people like me
or to David or Kirk.
They are common to everybody.
So let's be brave this morning, and let's be honest.
And we're going to find ourselves in Jesus' words
if we're both of those things.
Don't hoard treasure down here
where it gets eaten by moths and corroded by rust,
or worse, stolen by burglars.
Stockpile treasure in heaven
where it's safe from moth and rust and burglars.
It's obvious, isn't it?
The place where your treasure is
is the place where you will most want to be
and end up being.
Your eyes are windows into your body and soul.
If you open your eyes wide with wonder and belief,
your body fills up with light.
If you live squinty-eyed in greed
and distrust. Your body is a dank cellar. If you pull the blinds on your windows, what
a dark life you will have. You can't worship two gods at once. Loving one god, you'll end
up hating the other. Adoration of one feeds contempt for the other. You can't worship
God and money both. If you decide for God, living a life of God worship, it follows that
you don't fuss about what's on the table at mealtimes or whether your clothes in your
closet are ratty or in fashion. There's far more to your life than the food you put in
your stomach. More to your outer appearance than the clothes you hang on your body. Look
at the birds, free and unfettered. Not tied down to a job description, careless in care
of God. And you count far more to him than birds. Excuse me. Has anyone by fussing in
front of a mirror ever gotten taller by so much as an inch? All this time and money
wasted on fashion. Do you think it makes that much of a difference? Instead of looking at
fashions, walk out into the fields and look at the wildflowers. They never primp or shop,
but have you ever seen color and design quite like it? The ten best-dressed men and women
in the country look shabby alongside them. If God gives such attention to the appearance
of wildflowers, most of which are never even seen, don't you think he'll attend to you,
take pride in you,
do his best for you.
What I'm trying to do here
is get you to relax,
to not be so preoccupied with getting
so you can respond to God's giving.
People who don't know God
and the way he works
fuss over these things.
But you know both God
and how he works.
Steep your life in God reality,
in God initiative,
God provisions.
Don't worry about missing out.
You'll find all your everyday
human concerns will be met.
Give your entire attention to what
God is doing right now.
And don't get worked up about
what may or may not happen
tomorrow.
God will help you deal with whatever
hard things come up when the
time comes. Or as another
translation puts it, tomorrow has
enough worries of its own.
It's a lot to take in, I know. We're taking
this upside-down kingdom passage,
this Sermon on the Mountain, big, huge
leaping jumps
big steps.
But to get you guys
to really let this sink in,
I'm going to ask you to stop for a few minutes.
I really, I mean it.
Stop for a few minutes and try
taking the prescription that Jesus is writing
here. Try shutting off all the white
noise for a second.
The distractions and the anxieties in your life.
You know, I'm not even going to give you guys
suggestions about what those distractions
or those anxieties might be
because you'll just end up obsessing
about what I suggest just to help you out here's a slightly different version
of the last few thoughts in the same teaching about priorities anxiety God
perspective so dwell on it therefore do not worry about tomorrow tomorrow will
worry about itself each day has enough trouble of its own okay how many of you
found yourselves thinking something like this ooh all right I'm not going to worry
about X. This is me not worrying about X. See how unconcerned I am about X. It's like
X never happened. Yesterday, at 3.05 p.m., near the Coke machine, with that guy in the
green sweater. It's hard, isn't it? Most of us worry about how we'll manage not worrying
about the things that aren't supposed to worry us tomorrow. I'll try that in a simpler
version. We worry about our inability not to worry when we're really put to it. And
if that proves anything, it proves just this. There's no simple act of self-help or willpower
that's going to allow you to twist your arm into living the kind of life that Jesus prescribes
here. You can't get yourself to say uncle and not worry. Remember, we're talking about
what a kingdom person looks like. And this is not a real estate gain strategy. It's not
a self-help movement. It's a genuine heart changed by God. It's a person who lives in
the rhythms and the natural patterns that come as second nature to people who live in reality
according to God. And unfortunately, most of myself, most of us, including myself, don't live
there very often. It's something we need to be taught. Put in a better way, it's a way of thinking
and being that needs to seep down deep inside of us until we can't remember being any other way.
So if you already live a worry-free, God-soaked existence,
then bear with us while the rest of us get our late start.
Here's where Jesus tells us to start.
Don't hoard treasure down here where it gets eaten by moths
and corroded by rust or worse, stolen by burglars.
Stockpile treasure in heaven where it's safe from moth and rust and burglars.
It's obvious, isn't it?
The place where your treasure is
is the place where you will most want to be and end up being,
where your treasure is, your heart will be also.
So what does that mean?
Well, here's a common but stupid misconception
about what heaven looks like or what this verse might mean.
Heaven is a kind of bank account that we put money into
every time we do something nice,
and we withdraw money from and squander it
every time we do something nasty.
I hope not. I really hope not.
Think of how deeply in hock you are
if heaven is a moral checkbook register.
This philosophy works for Santa Claus, fine,
but God doesn't work this way.
What Jesus is talking about here is common sense from God's point of view.
He's saying, all right, folks, what lasts?
The sum of your checking account? Nope.
That circa 1970s furniture you bought when you thought it was trendy?
No. No?
Well, I'm telling you outright in case you didn't know.
God lasts. I last.
I don't get stolen or eaten or lost or spent.
And if you have equity in your relationship with me,
then you've opened a line of credit that you can draw from now and into forever.
Stockpiling treasure in heaven doesn't just talk about
some pie-in-the-sky blessedness that we get to feel when we die.
You invest in God, you get God's presence and perspective
in your life in the here and now.
Thinker Dallas Willard puts it like this.
Invest your life in what God is doing, which cannot be lost.
Of course, this means that we will invest in our relationship to Jesus himself
and through him to God.
But beyond that, and in close union with it,
we'll devote ourselves to the good of other people,
those around us within the range of our power to affect.
These people are among God's treasures.
The Lord's portion, we're told, is his people.
And that certainly includes ourselves in a unique and fundamental way.
We have the care of our own souls and lives in a way no one else does,
and in a way, we have the care of no one else.
In other words, storing up treasures in heaven is making God himself
and the sort of things that are important to God, like other people, important to you.
And that sounds easy enough, at least until you try it.
Think about it.
Those of you who are married or involved with someone else,
are you thoroughly satisfied with the quantity and quality of time
you've spent with your significant other?
Those of you who are parents or grandparents,
do you have no regrets about the kind of time that you spend
or didn't spend with your kids, your grandkids?
Pick any human relationship. Pick one.
Brother, sister, parent, friend, grocery counter, checkout person.
and ask yourself if you've poured the kind of attention
and love into these relationships
that you wished you could have.
Brass tacks, this is beneath it all.
Are you as close to God as you wish you could be?
If you say yes to that last question,
then please finish this spiel for me.
No takers, okay.
See, there's a sad truth about human existence
that Jesus captures in these words.
Your eyes are the windows into your body and soul.
If you open your eyes wide with wonder and belief,
your body fills up with light.
If you live squinty-eyed and greed and distrust,
your body is a dank cellar.
If you pull the blinds on your windows,
what a dark life you'll have.
You can't worship two gods at once.
Loving one god, you'll end up hating the other.
Adoration of one feeds contempt for the other.
You can't worship God and money both.
Here's the sad truth.
You drink God in.
You live in a way that just bursts with his greatness,
his love, his generosity.
And your life doesn't end,
even when your pulse stops.
Your life doesn't end.
You feed your own appetites,
concern yourself exclusively with looking out for numero uno,
and your life caves in on itself.
It collapses under the weight of its own selfishness.
And too many of us choose this second alternative.
If you don't believe me,
Ask one of the Enron executives who just got a congressional subpoena.
There's a ripe example of what shameless self-interest and greed finally get you.
But, again, since most of us aren't villains on that scale,
we should ask ourselves more reasonable questions.
How often have you and I failed to cling to the people and things that really matter?
How often have we let ourselves get neck deep in worrying about things that we simply can't change?
I'm not, and Christ is definitely not trying to make anyone feel guilty this morning.
about making the necessary sacrifices
of time and attention that we make to feed our families,
to clothe our families, to feed ourselves.
The Bible has a lot of pointed and nasty things
to say about people who freeload
or people who neglect care for their families.
So storing up treasures in heaven
is not a kind of loophole
for lazy or financially careless people.
Not the point.
But I don't need to harp on this too much, do I?
Especially not in this service.
We all know when we're doing what it takes simply to get by.
Working a job, bringing home the bacon, paying our dues.
What we usually fail to recognize is when we've crossed that very blurry line
between doing what it takes and doing more than it takes
because we want to feed our egos, our pocketbooks, our closets,
and when all is said and done, our self-interest.
Or, should I say, we usually fail at first to see these sort of things in ourselves.
Seeing it in someone else, though, is easy, right?
It's always easier to point the finger.
See, Jesus doesn't give us a hard and fast definition of what a selfish person looks like.
There's no exhaustive definition, no way you can encompass that exactly.
He just makes fun of the characteristically self-absorbed things that we do
by explaining how far out of whack we are when we behave that way.
He makes fun of us, and we see ourselves, if we're honest, in his description, in his derision.
Has anyone, by fussing in front of a mirror, ever gotten taller so much as by an inch?
All this time and money wasted on fashion, do you think it makes that much difference?
Instead of looking at fashions, walk out into the fields and look at the wildflowers.
They never primp or shop, but have you ever seen color and design quite like it?
The ten best-dressed men and women in the country
look shabby alongside them.
I love that rendering right there.
If God gives such attention to the appearance of wildflowers,
most of which are never even seen,
are here today and gone tomorrow,
don't you think he'll attend to you?
Take pride in you, do his best for you.
What I'm trying to do here is get you to relax,
to not be so preoccupied with getting,
so you can respond to God's giving.
People who don't know God and the way he works
fuss over these things, but you know both God and how he works. Steep your life in God
reality, God initiative, God provisions. Don't worry about missing out. You'll find all your
everyday human concerns will be met. This sermon preaches itself. I don't need to embellish
it much. Jesus makes the point. What do you need to hear from me, really? I'll add this.
There's a lot more sober way of looking at the dilemma that we face between steeping
our lives in God-reality, God-initiative, God-provisions, or just looking out for number
one and obsessing about number one the whole time we're doing it. And Stephen King writes
it in his screenplay for the Shawshank Redemption, which many of you may have seen. He puts it
in the mouth of his character. You get busy living, or you get busy dying. My upside-down
kingdom paraphrase, you get busy living a life that stretches into forever, you get
busy living the kingdom life, or you get busy worrying about whether or not you want a coffin
in mahogany or cedar with mother-of-pearl inlay. It's harsh, but it's the truth when all is said
and done. In the five years that my wife and I have been married, we have buried a family member
every single one of those years. Three of them were grandparents on both sides of the family.
One was an uncle who died very young of AIDS that he contracted through a blood transfusion
before they knew to screen for that sort of thing.
So it was a very hard and kind of senseless death.
And so we've been to one funeral for every anniversary we've had.
And I've been to funerals here, too, for many of the saints that have left this place.
And there's two kinds of funerals, as far as I can tell.
They're the funerals that are celebrations of a life well lived.
And there are funerals where you're just struggling to come up with something substantial, kind to say about the person who's left.
How many of you knew Mike Savolka?
Mike was a fantastic man.
He could see if he held the paper about yea far from his face,
but he was still doing it in the choir every Wednesday night.
I'm told that in his last days when he was dying in the hospital,
he was keeping his roommates awake by singing really loudly and brashly.
Praises to God.
I mean, the man did not go down with a whimper.
and who was at his funeral.
Person after person after person
just gushing about this guy
in a way that you just can't manufacture.
I mean, there was one point
where one of his young grandsons
was talking about Mike Savolka
and all the great things that Mike Savolka was to him.
The kingdom life that Mike Savolka led.
And the officiator of the ceremony
had to sort of say,
oh, okay, we're on the clock here.
Time's up.
I mean, they had to stop people
from giving just a glowing report on the sort of man Mike Savolka was.
I had Jenny's grandfather, her dad's father, had the same sort of funeral.
We told jokes at his funeral because that's what would honor him the most.
If he wanted to be remembered for something, he wanted to be remembered for his humor.
It was a celebration.
And yes, we all cried when the casket got lowered into the ground,
and yes, that ripped our guts out.
But you walked away just feeling God was in that life.
My father-in-law, Walt White, is a missionary in Bangladesh.
And life in Bangladesh is hard.
It's brutish, nasty, and short.
And they have a saying there that if someone dies quickly in their sleep,
then they must have been a good man, a godly man.
That's the best you can hope for in Bangladesh.
And when Walt went back to his mission field
and told people who had known him most of his adult life
about his father passing,
they said, well, how did he die?
And they didn't care really about the life he'd kind of lived.
They just wanted to know, almost superstitiously,
how did this man pass into the next life?
Was it quick, painless, and over in a few moments?
And when he said yes, they all said, ah, what a godly man.
Now that's not a good litmus test for what makes a kingdom person,
what makes a godly man.
There are good people that die slowly, unfortunately.
There are bad people that die quickly, unfortunately.
But we all know how these people look when they pass on.
So I think a good way to sum up this passage,
don't let tomorrow worry about itself.
Let tomorrow worry about itself.
Seek first God's kingdom,
is paraphrased well in this bumper sticker
that my sister used to have in her truck.
Live so the preacher won't have to lie at your funeral.
My, she did enjoy Las Vegas.
That slot machine was her very favorite thing in the world to do.
You know, something lame like that.
Because that's what it all boils down to.
We're supposed to be living from God's perspective, folks.
We're supposed to be living habitually in God's power.
Doing the sort of things that God is doing.
Speaking in a way that God would have you speak to your fellow person.
And I said, that's not a self-help manual.
That's a habit that you get into the process of living only because the strength of God is poured day in and day out into your life.
God, Christ, is inviting you into that kind of God-soaked life through this passage.
He's inviting you into the upside-down kingdom.
Because the 401K, the upside-down 401K, is a relationship with him.
It's a relationship that spills into every area of your life.
And that's what he wants from you.
I'm going to call the worship team up.
Behind me? David? David? Okay. David is currently in the choir room. Please join us. Thank you.
And I'm going to ask them to play quietly. And while they play, I don't want you to think too
hard about this. I just want you to say, God, I'm looking in my soul, and I'm seeing that
what you talk about and what I am are different. They're not meeting up. I want a little more
one-to-one correspondence between your description of the upside-down kingdom and my life. I
want your power to be that, to do that. If you want prayer, if you want us to just ask
God on your behalf, God, smother this person with your presence, we'll do that. I'll do
that. Kirk will do that. The deacons and deaconesses will do that. If you want to turn
to the person who you came with this morning and ask them simply, could you pray for me?
Could I have a little bit more one-to-one correspondence
between this kind of great life, this good life, and my life?
Then do it. There's no shame here.
You don't have to worry about what people will think.
How many people think that anybody completely arrived,
completely measured up to the things that I talked about this morning?
I will be the first to admit that I'm not there.
I get there from moment to moment, but it's just a moment, a fleeting moment.
I pray that in my life
those moments will get longer
and more protracted
I pray that the preacher
won't have to lie at my funeral
let's pray together
God do your thing in us
help us to lay down all the things
that we obsess about
the things that get in the way
of just being with you
loving you
loving the people that you've given us to love
help us to clear
the path for your work
in our life. Help us to do a little
spring cleaning in our souls.
Most of all, God, once we've swept the place
clean, fill us with your presence so the change
becomes lasting
and noticeable.
We pray these things because you're the only one who can
do it. You're the only one capable
of fulfilling these promises because you're
the one who made them and you have
the credentials. In Jesus' name
I pray these things.
