I'd like to ask the question this morning about who are you?
If you remember, a rock group, The Who, sang a song like that.
They asked, who are you? To whom do you belong?
The reason I ask that question is because in this worship series, we're coming towards the end.
We're getting at who we are as a people who worship, and your identity of who you are shapes your behavior.
Who you are shapes what you do.
Now, how many of you have seen the film Toy Story?
All right, a very sophisticated congregation.
I think that's exciting.
If you did not see the film, it's a great children's film,
but it's really a film about adult themes as well.
It's about toys, but it's really about identity.
Who are we?
And if we know who we are, then it changes our behavior.
I'd like for you to see this scene where Buzz and Woody learn
what it means to be who they are
and how that affects their lives.
Take a look.
...nation, God's own people,
in order that you might proclaim
the mighty acts of Him
who called you out of darkness
into His marvelous light.
Once you were not a people,
but now you are God's people.
Once you had not received mercy,
but now you have received mercy.
Your identity shapes your behavior.
Who you are shapes what you do.
Church, on the bottom of your feet, it says God.
He owns you.
You have a purpose and identity.
And never forget it.
Never forget whose you are.
We're in a worship series.
We're wrestling with what it means to be a church that worships God.
We've begun to see that as we come together that God is the audience,
that we are the participants, the worship leaders here are the prompters in this experience
of giving ourselves to God.
And knowing who we are will dictate what we do in worship.
Knowing who we are will affect what we bring unto God.
Now God asks that we give our entire selves to Him.
He asks that we give our bodies to Him.
He asks that we give our souls and our will and our emotions and everything unto Him.
In Romans 12, beginning 1 and 2,
And so, dear brothers and sisters, I plead with you to give your bodies to God.
Let them be a living and a holy sacrifice, the kind that He will accept.
When you think of what He has done for you, is this too much to ask?
Don't copy the behaviors and customs of the world.
but let God transform you into a new person by changing the way you think.
Then you will know what God wants you to do,
and you will know how good and pleasing His perfect will really is.
To give our bodies and our minds unto God as an act of worship,
we need to know who we are.
And Peter makes it clear.
We are a chosen people.
You believe that, church?
You're a chosen people.
This is not just intellectual fodder for thought over lunch.
This is life-changing stuff.
Are you ready to hear this?
It's a good time for an amen.
Are you ready to hear this?
All right.
You're a chosen people.
God has chosen us, and he wants us to respond to him.
Jesus Christ has offered to us a new and an intimate relationship with God himself.
And we're not chosen to do as we like, we're chosen to do as God likes.
We're chosen to serve.
We're chosen to bless Him and honor Him in who we are and what we do.
You're a chosen people and you're a royal priesthood.
Now what's a priest?
A priest is someone who has access to God and helps others make that connection.
A priest functions, as one has termed it, as a bridge builder.
One who builds the bridge between God and somebody else.
Friends, you are a royal priesthood because through Jesus Christ, the great high priest,
we have access to God and we're challenged and charged to help others find him as well.
What a huge calling on our lives.
Bridge builders to God to help others connect with Jesus that they might find the Father.
It's a great responsibility.
If you're struggling with purpose in life, friends, you are to be bridge builders to God
of the people that are lost around you.
What a holy calling.
You're a holy nation, says Peter, set apart because God lives in us
And through the Holy Spirit, we are set apart to accomplish God's purposes in the world.
You're a holy nation.
We're a people for God to specially possess.
Now why is that important?
Well, when God possesses us, as we've seen in this film, as we see in other places,
the value of something is often determined by whether someone has possessed it or not.
I've been to that restaurant, Planet Hollywood.
Some of you may have never been there.
essentially a big glorified burger joint with lots of artifacts from movies throughout the restaurant.
And behind glass you'll find pieces of costume worn in various films.
And if you get up close, you'll notice that much of what you see is common ordinary clothing,
but because Schwarzenegger wore it, or Madonna put it on, or Rob Lowe used that in such and such scene,
It's of great value.
Thousands of dollars for a pair of shoes.
One place I saw the shoes that were used by Forrest Gump.
They're just a pair of Nike, 60 bucks down at the shoe store.
But because Forrest wore them in the film, they're priceless.
Almost.
Who owns them gives them the value.
Who owns you gives you your value.
and you're a holy nation, a priesthood unto God.
In the film, they're Andy's toys.
They're not just toys off the shelf.
They're not just one of a million plastic parts
sent around the world.
They belong to Andy.
And because they belong to Andy, they have value.
You may feel beat up in life.
You may feel like you're insignificant.
You're just one more drone walking through the world.
But friends, if you know Jesus Christ and the Spirit is in you, you are God's holy nation, royal priesthood, king's kids, and never forget it.
Amen?
You have value because you're owned and bought by the king.
And never let anybody take that away.
You're stamped on your feet.
You're stamped on your soul by God himself.
God calls us to be a holy people, a priesthood, to worship and praise.
In the words of Peter, why?
To declare God's mighty acts.
Declare his acts.
One of the ways we get to know somebody is by what they've done.
A person's character is reflected in what they consistently do.
You get to know each other by seeing the track record of their life.
We often do that in a resume.
We see what they've done.
We see where they've been.
We see the kinds of things that a person does.
What would be on God's resume?
Would it just be big words, omniscient, all-knowing, all-seeing?
Those are big, heady phrases.
Or would it be also a list of the great actions of God?
And because of what he's done, we'd know who he is and his character by all the jobs he has done.
Friends, God is not a philosophical proposition.
God is not something on paper to wrestle with as some ethereal concept that makes the philosophers tingle.
Friends, God is a being who acts in our space and our time.
He invades our very history.
And one of the ways that we worship this kind of God is to declare what he has done in the world.
The mighty acts of God as revealed in Scripture become the basis for our worship
as we declare what He has done page after page after page with God's people throughout the ages.
And so the Scriptures become the basis for our worship life as we, in Peter's words, declare the mighty acts of God.
So number one, our faith as we learn about worship is based on God's acts in history.
Our faith is based on what He has done.
You see, the Christian faith is event-centered.
It's event-centered.
It's based on things that have happened.
And there are three primary events we can point to this morning
that are pivotal for our understanding of who God is
and how we might declare His mighty acts.
The first one is the creation itself.
God is the creator of everything that you see and touch and smell and taste
and everything you can't in the spiritual realm as well.
God created the heavens and the earth.
And friends, the world we live in is no accident.
You are not an accident.
You're a holy nation created special by God for a purpose in life,
to honor him and to declare his mighty acts.
Because he created us in his image,
we have eternal value and we have purpose
and you are special to God
because you're created by God.
And so our worship becomes a reflection
of that reality.
We express our deep and full expression of our love
to the one who created us
and how intimate that is.
Creation, the first primary event.
the secondary one as we spoke about a few weeks ago as well as the exodus as the israelites
delivered from the egyptians and they're formed into a new nation people taken from bondage and
slavery in egypt led into the desert where god's law and god's mercy would shape them
and form the basis for their lives and while he levels judgment on the egyptians
God's people were instructed to take an animal and to slay it
and put the blood of that sacrifice on the doorposts of the homes.
And from there, God's Spirit moved and passed over them,
and they were spared and delivered and marked by that experience as delivered by God.
And friends, it sets up the whole system where we are experiencing Jesus as the one,
and greatest of all sacrifices.
Amen.
A third great event of Scripture
that defines our faith and our worship
is the Christ event itself.
The life, the death, and the resurrection
of our Lord Jesus Christ.
In Christ, you are new creations,
brand new, stamped with God's imprint on you.
His work begins in us then
to reclaim the creation, to reclaim the whole world.
And he's using you and you and you and you and you and you and me and all of us
to accomplish that purpose.
So friends, we come to worship, to relive those mighty acts of God,
the creation, the exodus, Jesus' life, death, and resurrection.
Our faith is based on those events.
Number two, we relive those acts of God in worship.
You see, declaring these mighty acts, as the Scripture says, is a way to remember them.
And remembering them is to relive them.
And we worship God through remembering these amazing experiences and forays of God into our time and into our space.
And Scripture gives us this record of these foundational mighty acts of God.
Creation, exodus, lives and times of Jesus.
and the way the church remembers these things,
the way the church comes back to relive and remember them
is through symbols and rituals and worship experiences
that bring us back to those mighty events
that elevate our worship.
And particularly we remember God's work in Christ.
And so in the early church and throughout the church
they had a Christian calendar that was formed
to help us to remember God's mighty acts.
Let me give you some examples of this.
Advent, the season we're about to enter into.
A preparing for the way of the coming of the Lord.
A preparation time of looking forward to the birth of Jesus.
And then, of course, Christmas.
It's not just about toys and prizes on a Christmas morning and presents.
It's about Jesus being born for the world.
and I love all the presents and the trees and the toys
but it's really about Jesus
coming to the world
and that will be the focus of our celebration this year
and then later we move into Palm Sunday
remembering the arrival of Jesus into Jerusalem
and the beginning of the Passion Week
and then we move to Maundy Thursday
remembering the Last Supper with the disciples
the betrayal, the Garden of Gethsemane, and the arrest of Jesus.
And then we come to Good Friday, and the church remembers the death of Jesus on the cross.
But then we come back Sunday.
Then we come back Sunday morning, Easter, my favorite holiday of the year.
Why? Because it's about the resurrection and the hope of Jesus Christ,
the greatest day in the history of the world.
and we make a big deal about Easter
because it's the basis of our hope in Christ.
But then we move
and we're going to remember Ascension this year.
Why? Because Jesus then gives the marching orders
for the church.
He's leaving and the job is left to us
and we remember that experience in that Sunday.
And then Pentecost comes shortly thereafter
And we remember the Holy Spirit coming with power that the mission might be accomplished.
Not in our strength, but in His.
And you see the church calendar helps us remember and connect with these mighty acts of God.
And as we talked about last week or two, we talk about communion and baptism again as experiences
that we remember what God has done and what He's doing today in our lives.
We relive God's acts in worship.
And we relive God's acts.
Why?
Because it empowers us for ministry.
It empowers us when we leave this place.
We're a chosen people, a holy nation, a priestly people.
And when we come to worship God, there are benefits for us as worshipers as well.
You see, worship gives us a fresh awareness of the Lord.
When we gather as God's people and we give ourselves to God,
He is the audience, and we give our praise to Him.
We encounter a fresh awareness of the Lord.
And we need that, don't we, as people?
Because six days outside these walls, living in the world, it's easy to get beat up at times.
It's easy to experience heartache and challenges and pressures.
Friends, we need to come and realize the Lord is with us.
And there's something about the gathering of God's people that solidifies our commitment to him.
We remember who he is.
We're not alone in the world.
We have the church together.
And it's important that we come and gather and remember and receive a fresh awareness of our Lord.
Worship gives us hope.
It gives us hope.
Through coming and gathering and reliving these acts and singing and opening the word and enjoying each other's presence,
we realize that salvation touches every part of our lives.
We see that nothing is beyond his reach.
Worship gives us hope because we relive what he did.
We know he can do things in our lives today and tomorrow.
And we receive wisdom and grace to face the real issues in our lives today and tomorrow and the next.
So worship gives us that fresh awareness of the Lord.
Worship gives us hope and worship gives us strength.
Friends, we live in a spiritual battle.
There are forces, the Bible calls them principalities and powers,
that wage against God and his kingdom.
And friends, when you do ministry, when you give a cup of water in the name of Jesus
to somebody and offer them hope, when we deliver a turkey basket,
when we pray for somebody's deliverance from evil,
when we do these kinds of ministries, we're engaging in real combat in this world.
It's not hocus-pocus.
This stuff is real.
And we're here for a mission.
That holy nation, that holy priesthood entering into this world that people might receive Jesus from us
and hope and healing as we do the ministry.
And friends, that kind of battle is tiring and exhausting at times.
And we need to be filled up.
And so coming back to worship, it's like coming into the war room briefing.
It's like coming into the refueling depot.
It's like coming into the barracks and getting charged up again and sent back out to do what he's called us to do.
So we need to be here.
We need to come and get fueled up and get encouraged and bandaged up and charged up and sent back out to do what he's called us to do.
And I hope you look forward to Sundays as that refueling depot.
We can give ourselves to God and he fills us back up with himself.
And boom, we're ready to go again.
let Monday happen
with a vengeance
because we look forward to being out there
accomplishing his purposes in the world
oh it's Monday
oh God six days
before I come back to church
is that how we approach the world
it's Monday
it's a new week
I'm fired up
God is in me
look out
we're going to take some territory
because God is with me
that's our attitude for Monday
Is it yours?
It's not always mine.
I'm preaching to the choir.
But tomorrow, I'm going to be excited.
Because there's ministry to do wherever we are.
And worship fills us up and sends us back.
Are you ready for Monday?
And fill up today as you gather with God's people.
Friends, who are you?
You are King's kids.
Don't forget it.
1 Peter 2.9 is your verse.
Holy nation.
Royal priesthood, a chosen people for God.
You belong to God himself.
And because of that, it changes who you are, it changes what you do,
it changes how you worship, it changes how you live, and that's good news.
So church, will you receive that this morning?
Don't let it just bounce off our heads and our hearts.
Will you receive it?
We're king's kids, ready for life in this world, filled up by God.
nourished by his power and his spirit.
And your mission is worship.
Your mission is to give glory to God in all that you do
because everything you do is an act of worship.
And God is the audience and is watching
and is honored in what you do and who you are.
So never forget, what will you bring him?
What are you all about?
Who are you?
Let us not forget.
Our Father, it's amazing that you would create us
and redeem us and put your spirit
