The speaker quotes Scripture, tells stories, and uses proper punctuation, capitalization, and complete sentences.
Restrictive barriers are not those of just the body, but of the mind and the spirit.
My old boss used to say to me, the greatest barrier, Kirk, to success is between your ears.
He was right.
As I struggled making cold calls in that first business venture, the greatest barrier was not anything but between my own ears.
Did I walk in a winner that morning?
Did I walk in a loser afraid of the phone?
And I battled back and forth.
It was between the ears, in the heart and the spirit.
Many of you know that I'm a big fan of Walt Disney and Disneyland.
That's no secret.
Ever since I was little, the Magic Kingdom just had sway over my heart.
And every few years, I had the privilege of driving down the back of that station wagon
all the way to Disneyland and I just love that place and as you know I try and get there as
often as possible to enjoy a day with my kids in the happiest place on earth but not only is
Disneyland this wonderful theme park and escapist attraction I am fascinated with Disneyland
because it's an amazing dream of a gentleman with a vision and I am fascinated by the place
and by Walt Disney, who could see this place, this kingdom, in his mind
and how it has come to reality.
If you go in the gallery above the Pirates of the Caribbean,
you know where this is?
If you go into that gallery up the stairs,
you get a chance to walk amongst the artist's conception,
the drawings and the pictures of the early ideas
as they began to lay them out on paper.
And I love to see how certain rides took shape as a dream, then to paper, and then into reality.
In fact, in the early drawings, the train actually went the other way.
Did you know that?
And somewhere they set it right, and it goes the direction it goes today.
Walt Disney once said, if you can dream it, you can do it.
And I'm inspired every time I walk down that center alleyway there with all the buildings,
in the Disneyland castle in front of me,
I say, you can dream it, you can do it.
What a testimony of dreams
and of achievement
coming out of the depths of our spirit.
Have you ever had a dream in your life?
Have you ever allowed your sanctified imagination
to dream what God might do
in and through your life?
If you're a believer in Jesus Christ,
I believe the Holy Spirit longs
to give you a dream of a better future.
Perhaps your dream involves
using your God-given spiritual gifts
to serve Christ and others in a passionate way.
Perhaps you've dreamed of being part
of a dynamic, life-giving church
that's empowered by the Holy Spirit.
Perhaps your dream involves sharing Christ
in the marketplace and seeing people you know
and love coming to Jesus Christ through faith.
Perhaps you dream of serving the poor in the community
and seeing Christ minister to the lost around the world.
Most of us have had times.
We've sensed that God has planted a dream within us.
And yet, most of us can identify with having dreams
that were never realized.
Ideas that never came to fruition.
And as a result, some of us have become resistant
to the idea of allowing God
the luxury of planting a dream
within our minds again.
We're not going to go there again.
We don't want to be set up
for another disappointment.
But what if God,
what if God wants to resurrect
our past dreams
and put them into focus again?
Sometimes, former dreams do need to die
so that new dreams can be birthed.
but it's also possible to dream new dreams.
What keeps you back from dreaming God-sized dreams
for your life, for your church, for your community?
What holds you back from taking big steps with God?
What shrinks your spirit from believing
that God can do big things through you?
Sometimes there's barriers in our lives
to becoming all that God wants us to be,
They can arise from fear, insecurity, doubt, disappointment.
Do any of those have a hold on you?
Do you think small because you've been burned in the past?
Do you dream small because you're afraid of failure or of success?
Here's a question that rattles around and disturbs my soul.
If you had no fear of failure, what would you attempt for God?
If you had no fear that what you would step out and do,
if there's no fear of failure, what would you attempt for God?
That's a disturbing question, isn't it?
What is it you want to lay at the Master's feet when your life is over?
If you had no fear of failure, what would you attempt for God?
This summer, these next eight weeks, we're going to unpack this idea
of daring to dream again.
I believe that looking at God's word
and having it minister to our souls,
we're going to get insight
on how to break through some barriers
that can hold us back
from being all that God wants us to be.
Many of us live under a glass ceiling.
We don't know it's there,
but it holds us back
from being all that He wants us to be.
To dream and to step out
and to believe and to take bold steps for God,
we hold back.
And I want us to break glass this summer
and go to new places with God.
I'm indebted to the insight of Dr. David Maines
and Dr. Bill Shereos
as they shared some insight that's helped me
unpack these ideas.
A painful past, friends, can inhibit our dreams.
Perhaps some of you are sitting there
and you've experienced some of these experiences.
Maybe you've had a split with some close friends in the church
and that has soured your soul
and you're afraid to dream again.
Perhaps you've seen the failure of a spiritual leader that you trusted,
and because of that, you're never going to let God speak to you and dream again.
Maybe you've had a Christian friend betray you in some way.
Perhaps you had an experience where you tried your best to serve the Lord,
but you failed in your eyes, and you don't want to go there again.
And if God gives you a new dream, a new vision, a new idea,
you're afraid. I don't want to experience that frustration and pain again. I won't go there.
Perhaps in the church you've experienced the embarrassment of a harsh authority figure
or in the marketplace or on your job or in your schooling. Because of that, you don't want to rise
up again. You may have taught students or Sunday schools or young people and youth groups and you
may have been criticized. You feel like, I'm never doing that again. I'll never go there again.
Maybe your best efforts were sabotaged by a ruling board in some institution
that smashed your dreams and you say, I'm never going to do that again.
Perhaps a local church has let you down in some way.
You carry that with you and it inhibits what God wants to do.
Perhaps you've had your mate leave you for somebody else
and you are just devastated and you never want to experience that.
So you're going to shrivel up and remain isolated from people and from God.
It holds you back.
Perhaps your children have turned their backs
on the lessons and values you taught them,
and you don't want to go there again,
so you just shrink back from doing what God would have you do.
Some of you in this room statistically
probably have this devastating experience
of some real abuse in your past.
It's starting to surface, and you realize
that people you've trusted have really hurt you
and let you down.
You're never going to dream big again.
Friends, it's time perhaps now
it's time to put that painful past behind you
and let God fill your mind and your soul
and your heart with new dreams
and to not be shaped only by the past
but be shaped as well by your present and your future
as God wants to heal you and grow you and move you on.
Gideon, we've already mentioned his name today.
Gideon had an obstacle to dreaming again.
Gideon had to overcome a painful past as well.
We meet this gentleman, Gideon, in the book of Judges.
We've talked about Judges a while back
and those cycle of sin and servitude
and then there's supplication.
They beg for God to come and then salvation.
They go through that cycle over and over and over.
We meet Gideon in one of those cycles
and the people again doing evil,
what's in the sight of the Lord.
The people woke up, and they asked God to deliver them again.
And so God sent a deliverer, and here is what happened.
Judges chapter 6.
The angel of the Lord came and sat down under the oak in Ophrah.
That's not Oprah, it's Ophrah.
Belonged to Joash the Abizite,
where his son Gideon was threshing wheat in a winepress
to keep it from the Midianites.
When the angel of the Lord appeared to Gideon, he said,
The Lord is with you, mighty warrior.
But sir, Gideon replied,
If the Lord is with us, why has all this happened to us?
Where are all His wonders that our fathers told us about when they said,
Did not the Lord bring us up out of Egypt?
But now the Lord has abandoned us and put us into the hand of the Midianites.
the Lord turned to him and said go in the strength you have and save Israel out of Midian's hand
am I not sending you but Lord how can I save Israel my clan is the weakest in Manasseh and
in fact I am the least in my family the Lord answered I will be with you and you will strike
down all the Midianites together. Gideon. Gideon had to overcome a painful past, and here's how he
did it. He did it in what he knew, and then in what he did based on what he knew. Number one, he knew
his God-given identity. When we meet up with Gideon, notice he's covertly, secretly threshing
wheat at the bottom of a wine press. Friends, wine presses are for wine. He's there hiding
from the Midianites. The Midianites would regularly come into Israel and take all their food.
As part of being a conquered people, they would swoop in at regular times and take all the wheat
and the food away. If you've seen A Bug's Life, if you've seen that film where a hopper and all of
the grasshoppers descend upon the colony and they take their food away, that's what's going on
in this story. If you haven't seen it, go rent it. Think theology, Gideon with hopper. The people of
Israel were afraid. This warring community comes regularly and takes from them. They lived in fear,
Fear of invaders, fear of starvation, fear of destruction.
And you can see Gideon's fear as he addresses the angel of God.
If the Lord is with us, why has all this happened?
But God's challenging Gideon to a new dream.
A dream of deliverance, a dream of victory.
But Gideon is focused on the past pain of having the Midianites show up regularly and steal from them.
This is not the way it's supposed to be.
and he's afraid to go there again.
God, I'm not going to believe you.
I've seen where we've been.
Failures and hurts do that, don't they?
They keep us living in the past.
We're afraid to dream and believe new dreams.
The angel said to Gideon,
The Lord is with you, mighty warrior.
Mighty warrior, huh?
Smallest of the small, from the least of the clans,
hiding in a winepress,
afraid and God calls him a mighty warrior Gideon doesn't see himself as God sees him
Gideon sees himself as the least as the smallest as the fearful God sees him as a mighty warrior
go Gideon and do what I've called you to do you are a mighty warrior yes there were painful issues
in his past, but God saw him as a warrior. God saw Superman. Gideon saw Clark Kent. God saw
Spider-Man. Gideon saw Peter Parker. How do you see yourself? Is your identity defined by your past
or by God in what he wants to do now and in the future? Are you followers of Jesus Christ,
Children of God?
Soldiers of the cross?
Yes.
You are mighty warriors for the kingdom of God.
No matter where you've been, what has happened,
God can and wants to use you in a mighty way today and tomorrow.
No matter where you've been,
He's got a better vision than probably you will even begin to see.
Let Him speak dreams and visions into your heart again.
Do not be afraid.
Gideon began to believe God's identity for him.
You're a mighty warrior, son.
He began to believe it.
He began to learn that he was a warrior for God.
And from that position, he acted.
He acted, number two.
He acted on that identity.
If God calls him a warrior, who is he to say no?
Who is he to doubt Almighty God and his vision for his life?
God said, go in the strength you have and save Israel out of Midian's hand.
Am I not sending you?
But he still fought with excuses.
My clan's the weakest, I'm the least.
God says, I will be with you.
You will strike down the Midianites together.
This is my vision for you.
This is my dream for you.
Believe it and act on it.
God's saying, come on, Gideon, stop the objections.
I see you differently than you see yourself
you can act on your new identity a mighty warrior
that's what I've called you and yes you might feel
afraid inadequate but you don't have to let those feelings
paralyze you sometimes friend God calls us
to big dreams to take on big endeavors for God
even when we feel puny and pathetic God is calling us
to big things. Do you believe that? And if you believe it, will you act on it?
God sees you as warriors, soldiers of the cross with a mission and a purpose
to glorify him and take bold steps and live in faith in this world. Yeah, but God, I just got
so hurt 25 years ago oh but god but god but god i see you as a warrior go but lord you don't
understand go because i believe in you my child yes but go he wants us to act stop blaming our
past for holding us back stop blaming god let's get with god's program for our lives for each of
your lives whatever that is what would you dream to do if there was no fear of failure that may be
what god has been dreaming for your life for a long time and we hold back because of fear of
experiences in our past and he says i want to heal those and move you on your identity is not your
hurts your identity is a warrior for god that's a good time to say amen amen there's a book called
The Courage to Teach, by a gentleman by the name of Parker Palmer.
And the book talks about an undivided life.
And in the book it talks about individuals that have changed the course of history
because they came to a juncture where they had to choose between allowing themselves to die
and to claim an identity and integrity from which goodness comes.
And they talk about, in this book, about Rosa Parks.
The woman that started the whole civil rights movement.
And the book, it describes her and it quotes her as saying this.
She says, people always say that I didn't give up my seat because I was tired, but that isn't true.
I was not tired physically or no more tired than I usually was at the end of a working day.
I was not old, although some people have an image of me being old then.
I was only 42.
No, the only tired I was, was tired of giving in.
Tired of giving in.
And she rose up and decided to live in integrity for what she believed and what she was going to act on.
And that's what she did.
She didn't give in an undivided life, integrity in her life.
No more blaming institutions.
No more blaming systemic issues.
No more blaming everybody else.
She was going to stand and do what was right, undivided life.
Are you ready to take responsibility for your life?
Are you willing to stop looking at others and the past
and begin to live out God's identity for you?
And I want you to realize this,
that the person that hurt you may never ask for forgiveness.
You have to realize that whoever it was,
they may never come to you and say,
would you forgive me for what I've done?
The marvelous job and ministry that you did that one day years ago
may never be recognized.
Deep down, you're yearning to be acknowledged,
and it may never happen.
Some injustices may never be righted in your lifetime.
and that sin that somebody committed against you
and wounded you,
it may go unconfessed all the way to the grave.
That may be reality for you.
But can you act on the basis of who you are,
not on what has happened?
Can you live and act today on who you are
as God sees you,
not based on the experiences of the past?
Wilma Rudolph did it.
She was not confined by what others told her she would be.
Gideon did it as well.
And when he acted, he found he had the presence of God with him.
The tiniest guy from the weakest clan hiding in a wine press.
And when God moved in his life and he believed it and acted on it,
here's what happened.
In the end, a hundred men and Gideon took on the entire Midianite army of thousands and won.
Because God said, I've got a dream for you, and he moved on God's vision, not his own.
And church, you may have to simply take the steps of obedience and trust God for the results.
And maybe that's sharing Christ with the person that you know he wants you to share.
and you're just afraid
because the last time you opened your mouth for Christ,
you got it slammed in your face
and you won't do that again,
but he's calling you
where you believe he still wants to use you.
Maybe you have to step out
and begin your daily devotions
and begin really taking nourishment from Christ
and overcome the hurdles of doing that.
You might have to apply to school
and believe he wants to teach you
and grow you and use you in a powerful way,
but you've got to step out and do it.
don't be afraid. Church, don't be afraid. The devil wants to hold us back through fear. If he can put
fear in our lives and make us aversive to risk, the church is done. Maybe it's time to start
praying. Maybe it's time to start that new ministry. Maybe it's time to do whatever God
has put those dreams in your head. They're not there by a fluke. They're there because God
wants to use you and do great things through you? Will you live by who he sees you as today and
tomorrow? Or will you live by what the world has done to you in the past? It's your choice.
And Gideon chose to believe God and trust him and go forward. Helen Keller said, life is either a
daring adventure or nothing at all. A daring adventure or nothing at all. Church, which one
do you want to live? The adventure with Christ or that milk toast experience that's nothing at all?
I, for one, don't like milk toast, but you know I've been there. I've been afraid. I've been afraid
when painful experiences in my past gripped me, and I was told you'll never go far because of
these things. I had to go past that and believe God. It's not easy, but God is real, and when He
puts a vision in your head and calls you beyond your experiences in the past he wants to use you
believe it and stretch and act on it life is a daring adventure or nothing at all let's be
adventurous mark twain said 20 years from now you'll be more disappointed by the things you
didn't do than by the ones that you did do what do you want to lay at the feet of jesus when you
meet him what do you want to look back and say i did it i stepped out i tried and look what god did
or do you want to stand before the father and say well i was i just wasn't sure i was i was afraid
and i buried the talent in the ground and i covered it up i didn't go with you mark twain
says throw off the bow line sail away from that safe harbor catch the trade winds explore dream
discover, and I want to say
church, know who you are
in Jesus Christ
sealed by the Spirit
blessed of God, empowered with gifts
given dreams and visions
go, rise, serve
conquer and prevail
as he's empowered you to do it
act on who you are
God
is with you, dream big
dreams for God, dare
to dream again
let's pray father may this not be a story but may it be our life story of believing who you are
believing that you want to use us in profound ways in extending the kingdom and may we believe
it to the point of acting on it not just intellectual assent in our brains but actions
in our lives and our limbs and lord i pray that you'd heal us of the wounds in the past
the disappointments and the hurts
and the injustices and all
the things that cripple us and
shrivel our souls. Father, I pray that you'd
blow your spirit into our souls and
expand us. May we
conquer our fears
and trust you and
go forward. Father,
forgive us for not believing
in your greatness and your power
from shrinking back.
And I pray that you would meet us.
And even today, this might be a profound moment
of healing the past.
that we might believe in the future
you've called for each of us
and for our church in general.
Lord, I pray your spirit is powerful
amongst these people,
precious people.
Father, may they know your love
and your power in tangible ways
this day and each day forward.
And may we be a church that dreams.
