I'm dismissed to Children's Church this time.
Is it fun having Will and Kathy call back?
Thanks for being here.
Pastor Dave tells me that we've just gone high-tech in a different way,
that now the text from the messages are on the website.
So starting tomorrow, you can get today's message in text form.
You can also get it on CD, and you can get it on tape.
So we're getting out there, you know?
That's exciting, so I appreciate those guys.
We've also had a massive hardware failure this morning.
We had a little trouble in this service, but I just thank God for the team who are so committed to sweating bullets back there while we're all just worshiping the Lord.
I mean, they're writing me signs saying good, you know, and all this stuff.
And I want to give them a thanks for all that you guys do.
Well, this morning we are in the fourth installment in a series.
And can you indulge me?
Can I roll my sleeves up a little bit?
I can't preach like this.
Can I do that?
This just feels too stuck, you know.
Take the talk.
Can we do that?
Okay.
Okay. All right. All right. Now, we can really get... I'll stop right there, though. That's
going to be all right. But here's the... I can't preach all bundled up. You know, given
the tragedy that has happened and that we're actually experiencing even this morning, I
think we're very sensitive to death. We're sensitive to destruction. We are sensitive
to carnage. And, you know, we're face-to-face with these things in ways that we have not
experienced in a while. One of the challenges to the Christian faith is that if you take
a look at the Old Testament, it is just full of death, destruction, and carnage. And in
today's world, our sensibilities, especially in America, where we are really removed from
these events by and large, that we just feel like, what kind of a God is this that sort
of is behind all of this to begin with. In fact, I've heard it said in different ways
that, you know, God is kind of a schizophrenic God. Because in one sense, there's all this
death and destruction and all of that. And then all of a sudden, we're talking about
him being loving and merciful. Well, which is he? How do you bring those two tensions
together? In fact, it's been so well laid out in this book that we're studying, Lee
Strobel's The Case for Faith. We're in the fourth chapter here. Robert A. Wilson, in the first part
of the chapter for the day, says, the Bible tells us to be like God, and then on page after page,
it describes God as a mass murderer. That's an interesting charge leveled at God, isn't it?
Now, King David, and we're going to talk more about him in this message later,
says in Psalm 86, but you, O Lord, are a compassionate and a gracious God,
slow to anger, abounding in love and faithfulness.
Well, which is it?
And I suspect that many of you,
whether you've been believers for a long time
or fairly new to Christianity,
you may have run across this question in different forms
and said, yeah, what about that?
Some of the Old Testament,
if you're reading it to your children,
you blush because there are some scenes in there
that you really don't want to read as a bedtime story.
It's interesting how we've got these little children's Bibles.
they really sanitize a lot of the Old Testament stories
because they really are something that would be PG-13 or R-rated if it was in the theater.
How do you reconcile those two positions?
The challenge is, it's put out there, is that you really can't.
And so what's really at stake here is the very character of God himself.
Is he consistent or do we have two different gods represented
or is the Bible basically just full of malarkey
because it can't make up its mind, you know, where is God and so forth.
Let me give you some examples here.
Genesis 19.
Then the Lord rained down fire and burning sulfur from the heavens on Sodom and Gomorrah.
He utterly destroyed them along with the other cities and villages of the plain,
eliminating all life, people, plants, and animals alike.
Deuteronomy chapter 7, a few books later.
When the Lord your God brings you into the land you're about to enter and occupy,
he will clear away many nations ahead of you.
The Hittites, Girgashites, Amorites, Canaanites, Perizzites, Hittites, and the Jebusites.
These seven nations all are more powerful than you
when the Lord your God hands these nations over to you and conquers them.
You must completely destroy them, make no treaties with them, and show them no mercy.
That is strong language.
That was a violent scene we were describing there.
What do we make of stories like that?
Well, in 1794, Thomas Paine wrote,
in The Age of Reason, he wrote this.
This is his response.
Whenever we read these obscene stories,
the voluptuous debaucheries,
the cruel and torturous executions,
the unrelenting vindictiveness
with which more than half the Bible is filled,
it would be more consistent that we call it
the work of a demon than the word of God.
We know where he stands.
What do you think about that?
Have you ever wondered that?
How do we put together all these stories?
How do we reconcile the New Testament picture
and the Old Testament picture
as being of the same God in the same book?
Well, there's one way to do it.
You simply reject the Bible.
You reject the God of both Testaments,
and you say this is just a bunch of interesting narrative
from some backwater places
with people who are unenlightened and so forth,
and they love writing about bloody stuff,
and we just ignore the whole thing.
It's one way to do it.
You just say it's myth, it's ancient narrative and story and it's bloody and those people
were not sophisticated and we just let it all go and reject the God of the Bible and
the Bible itself.
Now underneath this issue, as I've just kind of hinted at it, is rejecting the Bible itself
because see underneath this tension with the character of God is also if we're going to
use the Bible to talk about God at all, whether you're a critic or a fan of God, you're still
using this book, can you really do that with intellectual integrity? Does this book have
any reliability to describe anything about God at all? How do we know this thing is true
is really what the question is. So we're going to really look at two different issues this
morning. We're going to look at the character of God and also the reliability of the Bible
itself. Now one thing I want you to kind of keep in the back of your mind is just because
the Bible will describe a scenario or an event or something that people do or commit
against one another, it doesn't mean the Bible necessarily condones the behavior. It simply
records it. And there's a big difference between recording something and writing it down as
if this is the way to be. There are a number of horrible events in here that people did
to one another that is simply written down as history and as narrative. But God is not
condoning that behavior. So I want us to be careful when we're looking at this that we're
not confusing those two issues. Okay. In the book, The Case for Faith, Lee Strobel, the
author, trained as a journalist, asks Dr. Norman Geisler a really summary statement
question. He says, isn't there a big difference between the oft-cruel God of the Old Testament
and the loving God of the New Testament? And that's our tension this morning. And Dr. Geisler
responds with an interesting statement. He says, when you do a word study and you do
a word count of the word mercy, and he uses the King James for whatever reason, he finds
out how many times does the word mercy happen in the King James Bible. King James translation
is an older translation, kind of a standard. And he says when you run the numbers, there
are 261 occurrences of the word mercy in the King James Bible. And 72% of those references
are in the Old Testament.
It's a three-to-one ratio of the concept
and the discussion of mercy
in the Old Testament to the New.
Isn't that interesting?
Because we don't simply think of it that way.
You'd think, big bad God of the Old Testament,
loving, merciful God of the New Testament,
but mercy is talked about 72% of the time
in the Old Testament.
The word love is also run through those same numbers,
and it shows up 322 times in the King James Version,
and he finds that about 50% is in each testament.
So love and mercy is running throughout both sides of the Bible.
Now, I want to keep him honest, and so I ran the numbers myself.
I went to my Bible software, and I typed in these words,
and I just ran it and see how many times it shows up,
counted them up, and sure enough, these numbers are accurate.
Dr. Geisler goes on to make another argument
that I think is really interesting that I didn't even realize.
He says, you know, the argument could be made
that the God of the New Testament
is actually more judgmental
than the reference to God in the Old Testament
because in the New Testament,
we talk a lot about heaven and hell
and about future judgment forever.
The Old Testament doesn't talk about that.
In the Old Testament,
judgment comes as a city is occupied,
as people take over the land,
but nowhere do you talk about
eternal judgment anywhere.
That's a New Testament concept,
and it could be argued
that so much of the New Testament is about eternal judgment
that the New Testament is actually more judgmental than the old.
That's an interesting argument, isn't it?
I'd never thought of it that way.
But just looking at those concepts, I can see that to be true.
At the same time, there is a consistency in the Scripture.
The Bible says in Malachi 3.6,
I am the Lord, and I do not change.
What we're really seeing, if you do careful study,
instead of just letting a friend say,
you know I opened up this and I read this awful story
and just that God of the Old Testament
I don't want to believe in him, I don't like him
I don't want to go there, this Bible
is ridiculous, I don't want anything
to do with your faith, we need to push them
back to really study and look at those
documents in context
and you realize there's a consistency
throughout the Old Testament
and the New Testament about God's
judgment and about his mercy
that they're intertwined
and they run throughout the entire Bible
but still
The charge could be leveled at you, but you know, word studies aside, that's all fine.
But there are just some really difficult passages, like this one.
This comes out of Exodus chapter 12.
This is coming out of right after all the plagues of Egypt,
and the Pharaoh's not going to let the people go.
And over and over and over, they've ramped up the intensity of the plagues upon Egypt,
and finally this scenario happens.
And Moses called for the leaders of Israel and said,
Tell each of your families to slaughter the lamb they have set apart for the Passover.
Drain each lamb's blood into a basin.
Then take a cluster of hyssop branches and dip it into the lamb's blood.
Then strike the hyssop against the top and the sides of the door frame, staining it with blood.
And remember, no one is allowed to leave the house until morning.
For the Lord will pass through the land and strike down the Egyptians.
But when he sees the blood on the top and the sides of the door frame,
the Lord will pass over your home.
He will not permit the destroyer to enter and strike down your firstborn.
A few verses later,
And at midnight the Lord killed all the firstborn sons in the land of Egypt,
and the firstborn son of Pharaoh who sat on the throne,
to the firstborn son of the captive in the dungeon.
And even the firstborn of their livestock were killed.
Pharaoh and his officials and all the people of Egypt woke up during the night,
and loud wailing was heard throughout the land of Egypt.
There was not a single house where someone had not died.
What do you make of that narrative?
violent, horrible scenario.
And that experience is foundational
to the Jewish celebration of the Passover,
where God passed over the homes
that had the blood that were the Jews
that were being saved.
What about this, Jonah chapter 1?
The Lord gave this message to Jonah,
the son of Amittai,
get up and go to the great city of Nineveh,
announce my judgment against it,
because I have seen how wicked its people are.
The question kind of boils down to this.
How do we worship a God who murders innocent people?
How do we worship a God that allows children to be slaughtered?
And that's really a deep emotional issue underneath these challenges.
And I think we have to come back and step back and say, let's look at this again.
We need to face, first of all, the issue of the holiness of God.
In our very sanitized world, it's easy to miss this concept.
The reality is this, God is holy, God is separate, God is perfect, God is pure.
God is something that's very hard for us to conceptualize coming from our very broken position.
When we violate God's plan, when we go our own way, when we seek meaning in life apart from God,
we break his commands, we violate that divine sense of right and wrong in the universe,
and we are not any longer holy or set apart or righteous.
We are now broken and full of sin.
And that includes all of us.
And I think we have to come back to the gravity of sin.
The Bible says in Romans 6.23, it's up here,
for the wages of sin is death.
If you sin, what you get in return,
the wages for doing that is death.
That's how serious God takes this issue
of violating his character and his plan for our lives.
So deeply underneath this is the issue,
is anyone really innocent?
Really?
And the answer is no.
The Bible says we all fall short of what God's best is for us.
We all sin, it says in Romans 3.23,
for we all have sinned and all fall short of God's glorious standard.
Children and adults alike.
In fact, in Psalm 51 is an interesting little insight
that I believe that God is saying to us through David,
surely, it says in Psalm 51, I was sinful at birth.
Sinful from the time my mother conceived me.
You see, we begin to understand the depth and the gravity of sin
and its effect on us,
and we begin to realize that we don't really have a leg to stand on
to say, God, you have no right to judge sin.
When we realize also that God is the author of life,
He is the one who gives life,
and He is the one who is authorized to take it,
because the giver is the only one that can really take something, right?
That if he's the giver of life, he can take life.
And if you think about it, eventually we all die.
He does take all of our lives eventually.
The question is when and timing.
Now, I want to point out something else that's underneath this as well.
It's the character of God.
As much as he is so serious about judging sin,
and we're seeing these stories of literal judgment for actions committed against God,
you also see, if you study these passages in context,
that God always gives time to repent.
that God always gives an opportunity
to turn around and to go a different direction.
That's a pattern throughout the entire Bible.
Impending judgment, opportunity for repentance,
and then swift judgment when finally time runs out.
But God always gives time for people to repent.
The city of Nineveh is just one example.
At the back end of the book of Jonah,
after the people hear Jonah's impending judgment,
the message, they repent.
they turn their lives around, and they, so to speak, kind of get with God's program.
And this is what it says in Jonah 3.10.
When God saw they had put a stop to their evil ways,
he had mercy on them and didn't carry out the destruction he had threatened.
And now you get to the heart of God at the very end of that book.
And if you know the story, Jonah announces this judgment,
doesn't like these people, really kind of wants the judgment to take place,
sits outside there and waits for the calamity to happen.
And when God is merciful, he's all upset.
And he gets really in a twist.
And then God plays with him a little bit.
Has a little plant grow up over his head to shade him while he's sitting out there watching all the destruction to happen.
And then God has the worm come and eat the plant.
The plant withers.
And this poor guy is all upset about the plant.
Jonah is a psychological mess if you study him.
But he's out there, wants people to get destroyed, all angry about the plant.
He's got his whole mind all torn up and he's just a mess.
And God comes and says, look, Jonah chapter 4,
you feel sorry, Jonah, about the plant,
though you did nothing to put it there.
And the plant is only, at best, short-lived.
But Nineveh has more than 120,000 people living in spiritual darkness,
not to mention all the animals.
Shouldn't I feel sorry for such a great city?
Boy, can you hear the compassion of the Lord for these people?
And Jonah's the one that is waiting for all the fire and brimstone to fall.
And God is the one who gives them time to repent.
When they do so, he backs off.
I hope with some of these examples, and these are just a few,
that I've been able to show you that God's justice is perfect.
That he really is a God of mercy.
And that when he does judge human beings, he does it in an entirely justifiable manner.
For he is the giver of life.
He can take it.
but he gives people the opportunity to repent and to turn around.
And I hope you'll see that.
If you don't believe me, I encourage you to go to the Scriptures yourself,
study the stories, and look at the context,
and you will see that pattern over and over again.
New Testament, Old Testament, God of justice and mercy together.
But you notice we've been pulling from the Bible to create these examples.
Well, what if somebody asks you,
well, you know what, that's all great,
but I don't really believe that there's anything to,
this is just made up by human beings anyway.
This is not the word of God.
That's all interesting,
but I don't believe what you're saying about God
from this book.
How do you respond to that?
Well, at the end of the chapter,
Geisler gives four or five,
gives four actually,
reasons why the Bible is reliable
as the word of God.
And I want to share those with you
because there's some more kind of opportunities
for you to talk to people and explain why this book is the Word of God. Why the Bible
can be trusted, first of all, is the unity of the Bible. We're going to explain that
in a minute. The unity across all the different books is amazing. The second one is the confirmation
by archaeology. By digging around the Middle East and finding all these places, we begin
to understand how much history is really revealed here. Third, the evidence of divine origin.
The fact that we are here, created by God, points to the reality that there's a God.
And we're going to talk about that and did last week as well.
And finally, the whole issue of the prophecies.
All the prophecies that are written down and how they are answered proves there's something supernatural going on with this book.
So, individually, let's look at those real quickly.
The unity of the Bible. It's an interesting discussion.
There are 66 books of the Bible written by more than 40 authors over a time span of over 1,500 years.
And given the diversity of the style, given the different kinds of literature, there's poetry, there's narrative, there's letter, there's genealogy, all different kinds of literature.
And yet, given all of that diversity, there is this underlying message pointing to one person, to Jesus Christ, throughout all 66 books.
How do you get that kind of consistency over 1,500 years?
Unless there's a mind, if you will, behind the authors that is inspiring them to write something that is, if you will, supernatural.
I can't think of a better explanation
for that kind of diversity and yet unity
than God himself using the authors
to communicate to us.
The unity of the Bible is one reference
to prove this is the word of God.
The second is the archaeology.
Thousands and thousands of artifacts
and digs in the Middle East
continue to over and over and over
give us the proof that this is valid history and true.
Sodom and Gomorrah, those cities we talked about earlier,
they were supposed to be mythical.
There's no way that really happened.
Fire and brimstone does not come out of the sky.
This could not be until they went and found Sodom and Gomorrah.
And they found that the city was destroyed in some calamitous fashion.
It's all in the rocks.
You can prove these things.
You can show these things when you unearth them.
What I think is really fascinating, too,
was that David was often thought to be a mythical character.
King David, the writer of many of the Psalms
and king of the house of Israel,
that he was supposed to be, by a lot of scholars,
a mythical character until the early 90s
when they found an inscription of his name
in a tablet that goes way back.
And it's the earliest inscription of his name
saying, ah, there's a King David.
Now, usually when I get up on Sunday mornings,
I just kind of head out before I leave
and I get the newspaper and I glance at the headlines
just to see anything major happened last night
I should be aware of.
For some reason this morning,
I didn't just take a peek,
I brought it inside for some reason,
opened it up and looked at it
and noticed somewhere in the fine print
that the accent section of the Orange County Register
has this question, the David question.
And the whole article, by the way,
is three full pages of the Orange County Register
accent section this morning
is discussing that piece of tablet
that's now on display at the Bowers Museum in Santa Ana.
And they're debating in this article, now, was David a real guy or not?
And they get some pretty radical scholars saying, no, it's still mythical,
and that really, DWD, as they wrote it in Hebrew, isn't really pointing to David.
And other great scholars say, absolutely, it's the greatest confirmation we have
of the proof of the historicity of David of the Bible.
It's an interesting article.
This discussion, friends, is not something abstract.
It comes right home to roost, doesn't it?
It's right here.
I myself am convinced that that is proof for David and the house of David.
And Biblical Archaeology Review from 1994 agrees.
Number three.
So that's archaeology.
The third one is divine origin.
We talked last week about creation and about evolution.
And if you'd like to get the tape or see it on the website, you can take a look at that.
But as we talked about last week, the universe has a beginner.
Scientists are coming to that place of saying
there had to be a beginner for all of this to begin.
And they're pointing now toward the reality
of some supreme being.
The Bible talks about creation.
It's always been here.
Scientists are just catching up.
What I also find fascinating is how fine-tuned the universe is
for life to happen at all.
If things had been just a little different
at the different forces at the nuclear level,
we would not exist at all.
It points to God who's the creator.
And finally, the prophecies, number four.
There are 191 predictions in the Old Testament
about the coming of Christ,
about where he's going to be born,
how he will die,
about his ancestry,
about his being born of a virgin.
All these topics are in there.
I give you Micah 5.2.
But you, O Bethlehem, Ephrathah,
are only a small village in Judah.
Yet a ruler of Israel will come from you,
one whose origins are from the distant past.
Micah, that's in the Old Testament.
That's a prophecy about Jesus that's coming.
I go to Zechariah 12.10.
Then I will pour out a spirit of grace and prayer
on the family of David
and on all the people of Jerusalem.
They will look on me whom they have pierced
and mourn for him as for only a son.
They will grieve bitterly for him
as a firstborn son who has died.
There's a reference to this piercing there.
Jesus, when he was on the cross,
was pierced to see if he was dead.
He was also pierced in his hands and his feet.
And they're describing there basically a reference to crucifixion
before crucifixion has even been invented by the Romans.
I want you to turn to Isaiah 53.
We don't have it this morning on the screen.
We do have it now.
Oh, they're nodding.
We do have it.
Oh, right.
Take a look at this.
Isaiah 53, famous passage.
You need to understand this passage.
My servant grew up in the Lord's presence
like a tender green shoot
sprouting from a root in dry and sterile ground.
There was nothing beautiful or majestic about his appearance,
nothing to attract us to him.
He was despised and rejected, a man of sorrows,
acquainted with bitterest grief.
We turned our backs on him and looked the other way
when he went by.
He was despised, and we did not care.
Yet it was our weakness he carried.
It was our sorrows that weighed him down,
and we thought his troubles were a punishment from God
for his own sins,
but he was wounded and crushed
for our sins.
Who are we talking about here?
Jesus.
Written in the book of Isaiah
in the Old Testament.
He was beaten that we might have peace.
He was whipped and we were healed.
All of us have strayed away like sheep.
We have left God's paths
to follow our own.
Yet the Lord laid on him
the guilt and the sin of us all.
He was oppressed and treated harshly.
Yet he never said a word.
He was led as a lamb to the slaughter.
And as a sheep is silent before the shearers,
he did not open his mouth.
From prison and trial, they led him away to his death.
But who among the people realized
that he was dying for their sin,
that he was suffering their punishment?
He had done no wrong and had never deceived anyone.
But he was buried like a criminal.
He was put in a rich man's grave.
If you know the story of Jesus,
that's exactly what happened.
But it was the Lord's good plan to crush him
and fill him with grief.
Yet when his life is made an offering for sin, he will have a multitude of children, many heirs.
He will enjoy a long life, and the Lord's plan will prosper in his hands.
When he sees all that is accomplished by his anguish, he will be satisfied.
And because of what he has experienced, my righteous servant will make it possible for many to be counted righteous,
for he will bear all their sin.
I will give him the honors of one who is mighty and great, because he exposed himself to death.
He was counted among those who were sinners.
He bore the sins of many, and he interceded for sinners.
If that is not the most graphic depiction, description of Jesus at the week of the passion where he suffered and died,
I don't know what else it is.
And there it is in the Old Testament before Jesus was even born.
How do we account for that?
What are the chances?
This is the interesting question.
What are the chances that Jesus would fulfill all 191 prophecies exactly?
It's outrageous.
Unless God did it.
I'll end with this quote.
Bertrand Russell, the famous atheist, was basically asked, you know,
what would you say if you stood before God?
And he said something to the effect of, I would say I was never given enough evidence.
Not enough evidence to believe in him.
There was a Look magazine article, and Dr. Russell was asked this question.
Under what condition would you believe in heaven, or in God, sorry.
And he responded with this comment.
He said, quote, if I heard a voice from heaven, and it predicted a series of things, and they came to pass,
then I guess I'd have to believe there was some kind of supernatural being.
Now, think about that for a minute.
Dr. Geisler, years later, responds to that quote by saying this,
Mr. Russell, there has been a voice from heaven,
and it predicted many things,
and they came about to pass.
All those predictions came true.
Mr. Russell, maybe you weren't paying attention.
Or I would even push it further,
because, you know, in my experience with sharing sometimes evidence
for the Bible or for God,
I found an interesting phenomenon that takes place.
I will never forget one of my conversations back in college.
This young man and I were talking, and he would come to me every week,
and he had a new challenge about Christianity.
Why it was wrong, why it couldn't be true,
why Jesus was not the Messiah, those kinds of things.
And each week, I would take his question,
and I'd run off, and I would do my research, and I'd come back.
And this went on for, you know, a number of months.
And I would lay out an intellectually credible answer each and every time
for why God, why the Bible, why Jesus, and so forth.
And each time, there was, well, what about this?
After seven, eight, ten times of doing this, I finally asked him, how many more questions do I have to answer before you will make up your mind?
Is it two more? Is it the next one? Or is it 25 more? Or are you never going to believe because you don't want to?
And the issue often, friends, comes down to the issue of the will.
Because deep down, if you really take this data seriously, then you have to believe.
and if you have to believe,
you have to subsume our will to God's will,
realizing that we are not the owners of our lives
and we are accountable
and held morally accountable to a higher being.
So I just would put that out there
as one of those things where
if your friend is really seeking,
you can answer those questions
and I think we need to do that.
We need to show intellectual teeth.
We need to show reasons for our faith
because there are reasons
but also don't get caught in the trap
of chasing the wind
when their issue is the will
and not the evidence.
and just be discerning about that
and ask them the question.
We'll take one more question.
This will be it, last question.
If I answer this, you're a Christian, right?
Do it with a smile.
See what happens.
If I answer this question,
you're going to bow down right now, right?
Watch what they say.
You'll figure out where their heart is at.
Friends, I just want to conclude by saying
there's great evidence for the reliability of Scripture
that you can stand on this as the word of truth
and you also can stand on the fact
that God of the Old Testament and the New Testament
is consistent.
that there's judgment and there's mercy in both.
Don't be afraid of what you read.
Study it, and you'll see it to be true.
God is a loving God.
I'm going to pray in just a moment.
