I hope that was stimulating.
We come to the tough topic on a gloomy day when we know the fall is here.
We begin our sixth installment this morning in the series called Tough Questions, Honest Answers.
And the question today is put up here like this.
Why would a loving God torture people in hell?
That question, in various forms, is out there in our society.
And people resist the Christian message.
They resist Jesus, they resist all that the church stands for, sometimes because of this
very issue. Bertrand Russell, we've quoted him before, he said this, there is one very serious
defect in my mind in Christ's moral character, and that is that he believed in hell. I do not
myself feel that any person who is really profoundly humane can believe in everlasting
punishment. And B.C. Johnson, an atheist, I found this quote, says this, the idea of hell is morally
absurd. Okay, on the flip side, great Christian theologian G.K. Chesterton said years ago that
Hell is God's great complement to the reality of human freedom and the dignity of human choice.
Two worldviews, once again, coming together.
Let's be honest, hell has a lot of problems today.
And I would say that on the one side, it's actually been elevated in our popular culture.
As a student of popular culture, I'm always looking at theological themes within our culture.
One of the things I see right now on film and in television is hell in various descriptions.
We'll see it in these horrible graphic depictions of hell.
And as we head towards the Halloween season, it's even more ripe out there.
You'll see on television and movies demons, monsters, smoke, fire,
Freddy Krueger, if you recall that series of movies, and now a young lady named Buffy.
Some of your children may be watching.
Popular music has toyed with hell for years.
Blue Easter cults sang about the reaper.
Meatloaf talked about a bat out of hell.
And Australian rockers ACDC gave rock classics as Highway to Hell and Hell's Bells.
The concept of hell has been out there and is out there for our public consumption.
It's part of our culture.
But you know, the reality of hell that's in our culture right now is more of a fantasy.
It's something in a scary movie.
or there's this naive notion out there
that hell is some kind of big, raucous party
and that you really don't want to miss it.
Kind of the idea that all of your friends are going to be there
and it's going to be just kind of wine and song forever
and who wouldn't want to miss that?
So while the secular culture talks a lot about hell
and depicts it in films and thinks of it as a party and so on,
the Christian church, in some ways, is more silent on the topic.
And I think the Christian church is embarrassed by the concept of hell
and in some ways feels bullied by the quotes that I shared on the screen earlier.
What does the Bible teach about hell?
A few weeks ago we established in this series
that the Bible is a trustworthy document to communicate to us God's revelation.
Therefore, we're going to search it for a few moments,
get some of the pieces, and begin to digest what does the Bible teach about hell.
And so this morning, we're going to pull from the scriptures.
I'm pulling from Lee Strobel's book, The Case for Faith,
and also a book that's really excellent.
I've referred to it before.
It's called Beyond Death.
And Gary Habermas and J.P. Moreland write in that one.
And they deal with the philosophical and scientific issues
about death and the afterlife.
And so we begin as I talk about hell.
One quote on hell I found interesting was this.
The idea of hell, says one author,
was born of revenge and brutality on the one side
and cowardice on the other.
This author says,
I have no respect for any human being who believes in it.
I dislike this doctrine.
I hate it.
I despise it.
And I defy this doctrine.
And then he finishes,
This doctrine of hell is infamous beyond all power to express.
That was Colonel Robert Ingersoll,
a 19th century fervent opponent of Christ, opponent of the church, and obviously a great
opponent of the concept of hell. In response to that, Kent Wilson said this, and I put it up here
for you, though one may rail and rant, rebel, or rally against it, hell stands like a monolithic
tombstone in Scripture. It is mentioned on more pages of the Bible than heaven. And obviously
the Spirit of God is telling us something that is crucial. Wow. So to begin, let's look
at some Scriptures. Let's get our mind around what the Bible teaches about hell. So the
first thing, the Bible on hell. Here's a sampling. In the book of 2 Thessalonians, we have one
of two summary verses for the concept of hell. And I've put it up here to share with you.
From chapter 1, verses 7 to 9 of 2 Thessalonians, I read from the New Living Translation,
And God will provide rest for you who are being persecuted, and also for us when the Lord Jesus
appears from heaven. He will come with his mighty angels in flaming fire, bringing judgment on those
who don't know God, and on those who refuse to obey the good news of our Lord Jesus. They will
be punished with, notice, everlasting destruction, forever separated from the Lord and from His
glorious power when He comes to receive glory and praise from His holy people. And you will
be among those praising Him on that day, for you believed what we testified about.
A great summary verse, the concept of separation forever. The other verse is found on the lips
of Jesus, Matthew 25. And it says this,
Then the king will turn to those on the left and say,
Away with you, you cursed ones, into the eternal fire
prepared for the devil and his demons. And they will go away into eternal
punishment, but the righteous will go into eternal life.
I think by way of a little note here, that it is instructive that
Jesus talked a lot about hell. In fact,
as you know, there are many people in our world today that regard Jesus as a great teacher. He
may not be God in their minds, but he's certainly a profound and wonderful teacher. But then my
challenge is, what do you do with all of his teachings about hell? If he's a great teacher,
we have to take him seriously. And he talked an awful lot about hell. He said in Matthew 7,
you can enter God's kingdom only through the narrow gate. The highway to hell, he said,
is broad, and its gate is wide for the many who choose the easy way. But the gateway to life
is small, and the road is narrow, and only a few ever find it. Jesus also said this in Matthew 5,
22, But I say, if you are angry with someone, you are subject to judgment. If you call someone an
idiot, you are in danger of being brought before the high council. And if you curse someone,
you are in danger of the fires of hell.
In these images of hell, we get the references to fire and burning.
But the scriptures also state something interesting.
Kind of on the flip side, you see also hell is described as a place of darkness.
Matthew 8, 12.
But many Israelites, for those whom the kingdom was prepared,
will be cast where? Into outer darkness.
Where there's weeping and gnashing of teeth.
In 2 Peter, something similar.
These people are as useless as dried up springs of water
or clouds blown away by the wind,
promising much and delivering nothing.
He's referring to false teachers, and he says,
they are doomed to the blackest darkness.
Well, from those verses and investigating them
at a more deep level, I want to sum up some ideas
you can take away this morning.
And so my second point is this.
What and where is hell?
If people that you are sharing with, whether friends, neighbors, workmates, whatever,
if they resist this idea of hell and they reject Christianity,
we must have a defensible answer about, well, what is hell?
Where is it? And how do we explain it to somebody else?
What we see from these verses is the understanding that hell is described
in a variety of what I would say are contradictory images.
We've got fire and darkness as literal opposites.
If there's fire, there's light.
How can you have fire and darkness at the same time?
What we must understand is this,
that hell is a place of unspeakable horror
that language has a difficult time describing.
But what I discern from these verses
is that this idea of fire communicates the reality of God's judgment
and to appreciate his utter separateness and his holiness.
Now, one of the charges that is leveled against Christianity
is this concept that God sends people to an eternal torture chamber.
And if you can think about a torture chamber,
if you've ever been to Europe and the castles,
you go down the dungeons and you see these instruments of terror
that were used to extract confessions out of people
or to just inflict horrible, awful, prolonged pain,
it's easy to begin to confuse those
and bring those images together with this
and think in terms of God somehow sadistically
putting them in the rack and turning the crank forever.
Awful images.
J.P. Moreland of Talbot Seminary
and one who has spoken from this very pulpit
says emphatically in the book,
The Case for Faith, he says,
for one thing, I quote, hell is not a torture chamber.
And he says what hell really is, is the judgment of God in the form of separation from God.
He goes on and says something I think is really fascinating.
As a wonderful philosopher and a great theologian, he says the essence of hell is relational.
Christianity says people are the most valuable things in the entire creation.
If people matter, then personal relationships matter, and hell, he says, is largely relational.
Hell is essentially separation from God himself.
It is exclusion from all that matters, from all value, not only from God, but also from those who have come to know and to love him.
Gary Habermas, in the book Beyond Death, describes hell this way.
He says, hell is the end of a road away from God, away from love, and away from anything of real value.
It is banishment from the very presence of God and from the type of life we were made to live.
Heaven, which is full of God's presence, is a place of supreme happiness
where we cultivate freely chosen relationship with God and others who love him,
where we can grow in our knowledge of and intimacy with God and others who love him,
where we can serve God and others who love him.
And then he says, hell is the opposite of all of that.
Lee Strobel asks Dr. Moreland this question.
Is hell punishment for breaking God's laws?
Or is it the natural consequence of people living a life
where they say they don't care if they're separated from God
and instead want to do things their way?
You got the sense of that in our skit this morning.
Moreland says it's both.
He says, make no mistake, hell is punishment,
but it's not punishing.
It's not torture.
The punishment of hell is a separation from God,
bringing shame and anguish and regret.
And because we will have both body and soul
in the resurrected state,
the misery experienced can be both mental and physical.
But the pain that's suffered will be due to the sorrow
from the final and the ultimate unending banishment from God,
from his kingdom and the good life
in which we were created in the first place.
He says people in hell will grieve deeply for all they've lost.
It's the final sentence that says you refused regularly to live for the purpose for which you were made.
And the only alternative is to sentence you away for all eternity.
So it is punishment, but it's also the natural consequence of a life that has been lived in a certain direction.
We'll come back to some more concepts about hell.
I think that people also want to know, well, okay, where is it?
We tend to think in terms of hell as being sort of down and heaven as being up.
And those are helpful in a four-dimensional universe, perhaps,
but I think we need to realize that the concepts we're dealing with here
are on a whole different plane of existence.
As I shared before, physicists now think there are at least ten dimensions to our universe,
and so when we think in terms of where is this place,
we're talking more about a plane of existence beyond these dimensions
than in thinking in terms of a literal direction north or south.
Well, number four, the question is often asked,
isn't it immoral for God to send people to hell?
I mean, isn't the question phrased this way,
isn't banishment in hell really kind of a cosmic overkill?
That doesn't seem to be a morally correct action.
And I guess I want to come back and say we've got to remember
that God is the most awesome, wonderful, generous, loving being in the entire universe.
And from that position, He has made us as human beings with a free will for a purpose.
And that purpose is this, to relate to God in love and to love others.
And if we fail over and over again to live for that purpose,
for which we were created in the beginning,
that is one who honors us with our free will.
God gives those who resist him what they desire,
and that is separation from God.
From Oxford University, a philosopher, Richard Swinburne,
he gives an interesting defense of this view of hell.
And he asks this question, he says,
why is it that you have to have right beliefs and a good will,
that is, one that desires God, that desires salvation,
that desires heaven, to go to heaven?
Why are people with wrong beliefs and a bad will left out?
And his answer is really twofold, and I share this with you.
He says, heaven is the type of place where people with wrong beliefs and a bad will would not simply fit.
Heaven must be freely and non-coercively chosen.
And Swinburne goes on in the book Beyond Death, and he talks about meaning and happiness.
And he says that the things of deepest happiness are found in successfully pursuing the tasks of supreme value
and being in a situation of supreme value.
Those include a friendship with God,
learning to care for others,
caring for God's creation,
and those kinds of things.
He says, therefore, from that philosophical perspective,
heaven is not a reward for good action.
It is a home, he says, for good people.
It's the kind of place where people who value God
and his people will enjoy.
And on the other hand, he writes,
people with a bad will or people with a good will with false beliefs
about what God, heaven, and good really are will not be suited
for life in heaven. And so we're coming back to this
idea, and Swinburne would agree, that each day we are preparing ourselves
for either being with God or being separated
from Him. The day-to-day decisions that we make, the little choices
are either lining up with God and His purposes and ultimately
to be with him, or we're making little decisions that alienate us from him and from his people
and from all the things he's created us for. We make those decisions as part of our character
on a daily basis, and ultimately we find the conclusion to where those directions will
take us. One is with God, one is without him. To graphically illustrate the best I can come
up with is that great scene from A Christmas Carol. And I'm just using it as a metaphor,
I'm not going to get very literal, but the concept when Jacob Marley comes back and talks
to Ebenezer Scrooge. Do you remember the scene? And if you're here in our Christmas program,
you're thinking of Ron Stevens and Bruce Steele. Ignore that scene for a moment. Just try to
imagine the film, if you will. But go with me on this. Jacob Marley comes back, and what is he
carrying? Those long chains. And in effect, he's saying, I forged these chains in life. And what
he's saying is each step of my life, every decision I made forged a direction and a repercussions
behind me. And he's carrying these chains and he's saying, don't do this Ebenezer. Don't make
these daily decisions that lead you in a direction where you don't want to be. And I think that
concept is communicated there, that we make those decisions on a daily basis. And ultimately heaven
and hell are the different places based on whether you're in Jesus Christ and following
his will and being conformed by the Spirit to be the kind of people that would enjoy
heaven and enjoy God's people and enjoy God. Or you're resisting God, resisting Jesus,
resisting the atonement, and you follow the natural consequences of those decisions that
make you alienated and separated from God. Scholar Donald Blesch says this, hell does
have a punitive aspect to it. And he says, not because God's love is limited, but because it is
unlimited that hell, as well as heaven, is made necessary. God's wrath indeed is not only a
reaction of God's holiness to sin, but also a demonstration of his love, which punishes for the
sake of the sinner. We think about love for a moment, and loving in today's parlance is a warm,
sweet, sentimental notion, abounding in warm fuzziness, yet in some ways devoid of any
backbone. But a pure, good, moral God must be a God of justice. For justice is bound
up in being loving. Without love, or without justice rather, love is just simply sentiment.
It's sweet, but doesn't get you anywhere. Think about it when you're rearing a child
or you're disciplining somebody. Think about it in terms of that. Is it really loving
to let a child do whatever they want, if they want to play on the freeway. It's not a loving
thing to let them do that. Sometimes when siblings are fighting, parents have to execute, if you will,
tough love. Stop. Separate. Go to your rooms. Think about what you're doing. No television.
No CD-ROM tonight, or whatever it is in the contemporary world. Punishment is part of being
loving? Are we really loving if we have no backbone? Are we really loving if there's
no real justice? And so what I'm trying to say is this. I think when you begin to take
those analogies and stretch them out and apply it to the scriptures, you begin to see that
hell is a morally justifiable position. And that when people put to you that hell is morally
absurd, you can now begin to think in terms of, no, there's good reason why in God's
justice, there needs to be a place called hell. But the question comes back, is eternal punishment
for sin committed in a finite world, is that really fair? I mean, here you are, you make a
few mistakes, it's the thought here, and you're punished forever. Again, cosmic overkill, don't
you think? Well, Gary Habermas answers it this way, if people reject an ultimate God who is the
greatest thing that could possibly ever exist, that an ultimate judgment where one pays with
one's life in a final irrevocable sense is also just. Now, as our minds begin to sift through
some of this, other objections begin to arise. And here are some of the classic ones that Strobel
points out, and I think that you will find them if you talk to people about this topic.
And so I lay them out here for you. Number five, couldn't God force everyone to go to heaven?
Do we really have to have this hell thing?
Can't God just make everybody good and get them to heaven?
Can God force the bad to become good?
No, and here's why not.
That would not respect human freedom.
If God was to force us all to go to heaven, that would force us outside of our will.
And God always works within our will that he gave us and created us to have.
Our character, friends, we've talked about, is formed one decision at a time.
If you're going to cultivate false beliefs and do evil
and start a slide away from God that ends in hell,
God respects those human choices.
God respects persons enough to allow their decisions
to take them to the natural consequences.
For God to override human freedom
is actually immoral on God's part.
You see, that kind of action dehumanizes human beings.
It makes us objects and not beings with will.
It treats people as a means to an end.
And that is contrary to God's character.
Therefore, it's morally wrong for God to force everyone to go to heaven.
Okay, then the question comes up, well, if he's not going to make them go to heaven,
how about just snuffing them out?
Why does he just do that?
Well, back to the same issue.
To annihilate people, to sort of cease to have them exist at all,
removes all the physical and the spiritual existence.
but you're doing that to avoid them having the consequences of their choices.
And again, that treats people as a means to an end.
And as we've seen, that's immoral.
Moreland puts it this way.
He says, what hell does is recognize that people have intrinsic value.
If God loves intrinsic value, then he's got to be a sustainer of persons
because that means he is a sustainer of intrinsic value.
He refuses to snuff out a creature
that was made in his own image.
So in the final analysis, he says,
hell is the only legitimate option.
And I think the image I keep getting then
is almost like hell is almost like a quarantine
for those that want to live on their own strength,
with their own will, apart from God.
Then you put them over here.
Okay, here's one.
Why doesn't God then give a second chance?
Well, the Bible says some interesting things about that.
In Hebrews chapter 9, it says,
And just as it is destined that each person dies only once,
and after that comes judgment,
so also Christ died only once as a sacrifice
to take away the sins of many people.
But does that seem fair?
2 Peter 3.9, I think, handles the objection well.
The Lord isn't really being slow about his promise to return,
as some people think.
No, he's being patient for your sake.
He does not want anyone to perish.
So he is giving more time for everyone to repent.
And what I see in that scripture is that God is saying to us
that no one is going to hell
that would have made a decision to go to heaven
if they just had a little more time.
If there was one more chance,
if somehow that accident would have only happened a day later,
they would have made the decision.
If their last breath came just a week too early,
And somehow, if they just had a little more time,
they would have made the right decision.
In God's sovereignty, I'm seeing from the Scriptures
that God is just and fair.
And by the time a person ends up in hell,
they have made that firm choice.
And how can hell exist alongside heaven?
How can the two be side by side?
It's a great image that Eric created here.
How do those two work together?
C.S. Lewis, in fact, the author of the Reader's Theater we heard,
said hell doesn't have veto power over heaven.
He meant that people in heaven will not be denied
the privilege of enjoying their life
just because they're consciously aware of hell.
If they couldn't, then hell would have veto power over heaven.
And Moreland adds to this.
He says, you have to remember that the soul is big enough
to have an unperturbed sense of joy, well-being, love, and happiness
while at the same time having a sense of grief and sadness for others.
That that's not an inconsistent position.
I mean, think about it this way.
We saw images this morning of people hurting in South Africa.
And our souls are pierced.
Somehow we are drawn emotionally to that place and we hurt
and we have a sense of grief over the sin, the evil in our world.
At the same time, we can still love each other
and enjoy being together the rest of this day.
We can have our souls big enough to handle that kind of pain
and still encounter joy.
We can still have lunch this afternoon
and enjoy each other
while the realities of evil
still exist in our world,
in our nation.
We think about the events
of just a month and a half ago.
We are deeply saddened
by the tragedy in New York
and by the evils perpetrated there.
But life goes on
and we're still able to hug a grandchild
or a child or a loved one.
We can still have joy and pain
in our souls at the same time.
And from that we extrapolate the concept
that we can have heaven and hell
is in two distinct places
and we can still feel joy in heaven
though there is pain over here in hell.
Another challenge to the Christian faith
is the idea of reincarnation.
Kind of the recycling of the soul, if you will.
Isn't that more rational than hell, some would argue?
I think the concept of reincarnation,
the idea that you die and you come back again
in various forms,
is really untenable philosophically.
And I also find that it denies our fundamental personhood, and here's why.
Because reincarnation, just real basically, as I'm going to state it,
is the concept that we're moving towards moral perfection,
and that we can come back in succeeding lives
and kind of keep working towards that kind of perfection.
But if you've really, if you will, blown it in this life,
you come back in a lower form next time.
And you might come back as a dog or a cat or maybe a doorknob or something,
but everything is sort of in process of working upwards,
but if you've blown it, you go backward,
and you work your way back and forth.
The problem is this.
If you come back as an amoeba,
what is essentially, who are you?
Because Kirk has a body and a soul and a mind,
there's an essence about me.
When I come back as an amoeba,
what is really essential to me?
You see the challenge there.
When you come back as an inanimate object, if you will,
what is essential to me?
What is essential to you?
It doesn't work.
And besides, you're turning over your soul
into this great big wheel in the sky concept
with no real personal God.
It's just kind of this recycling model
that doesn't really have any philosophical backbone.
Hell, on the other hand, respects persons as persons.
It doesn't violate the essential personhood of the person.
I know I've given you a lot of information this morning.
It'll be available on our website
to take a look at this script.
You can begin to digest it and think about it more.
And there's so much more in that chapter
from Strobel's book that I didn't even cover this morning.
I just got some of the little fine points.
But as I'm kind of wrapping up
and coming in for a landing here,
I want to say a few things more in conclusion.
God, for one thing, takes no pleasure
in the concept of people going to hell.
Ezekiel 33 says this,
As surely as I live, says the Sovereign Lord,
I take no pleasure in the death of wicked people.
I only want them to turn from their wicked ways so they can live.
Turn, turn from your wickedness, O people of Israel.
Why should you die?
God is not turning the ratchets on the rack with a sadistic smile,
enjoying the reality of hell.
But hell is born out of God's justice and out of his respect for people.
But he takes no pleasure in having people go there.
So given all of this, finally, what is our response as Christians?
And I want to put up a quote by Soren Kierkegaard, a Danish philosopher.
He says,
If we believe in hell, if we believe in what the scriptures say,
if we believe it philosophically has teeth to believe in an afterlife
that honors the personhood
and our decisions that we forged in life,
if we believe in that,
then it is our responsibility
to share with others that reality.
To be Jacob Marley, if you will,
and tell Scrooge,
don't forge these chains.
Stop, turn, and go a different way.
To look to Jesus,
the one who can make us clean
and allow us into heaven.
To make us the kind of people
that would enjoy heaven.
Friends, God has entrusted us
to share the message of heaven
and, on the flip side,
to share the message of hell.
Jesus talked about it an awful lot in Scripture.
Jesus was always telling people
to repent and to follow Him.
And that becomes our charge as well,
that we tell people to repent
and follow Jesus.
And so with that, we close in prayer.
Our Father and our God.
