Good morning. It's good to be, to share the word again this morning. I encourage you, as Betty shared this morning, to be part of our prayer ministry this fall. As you know, we planned this out months ago, but the timing is just impeccable that we pray for our church, for our people, and for our nation. We look forward to your participation in that. It will be a blessed fall as we do that.
Well, our national leaders say we need to continue to move on in the light of the tragedy that's come upon us
and to live our lives and continue, and I agree.
And I think it's time to resume again our experience and our sermon series
and continue forward as we live our lives.
We continue to mourn and struggle with the things around us,
but we also need to continue to fill our minds and our hearts with the things of God and move on.
And so we're going to begin and kind of resume our sermon series this morning.
We started a couple weeks ago, and now we begin our second week.
in a series on tough questions and honest answers.
I'm pulling from Lee Strobel's book, The Case for Faith,
and I encourage you, if you're so inclined,
to get a hold of that and to read it and kind of study ahead.
We're going to go through chapter by chapter,
and we're going to be augmenting that material,
but I look forward to sharing this with you.
Psalm 105, it says,
Give thanks to the Lord and proclaim His greatness.
Let the whole world know what He has done.
Sing to Him, yes, sing His praises.
tell everyone about his miracles.
Tell about the miracles of the Lord, says the Bible.
Well, let me share as we begin this topic this morning
what others have said about this issue of miracles.
Richard Dawkins, famous atheist, said these words,
the virgin birth, the resurrection, the raising of Lazarus,
even the Old Testament miracles,
all are freely used for religious propaganda.
and they are very effective with an audience of unsophisticates and children.
That's a bold statement.
He's saying if you believe in the Old Testament miracles, New Testament miracles,
you are unsophisticated and childlike in your intellectual capacity.
Strong statement.
Gary Habermas says something different.
He writes,
It is not just a provocative rumor that God has acted in history,
but a fact worthy of our intellectual conviction.
The miracles of Christianity are not an embarrassment to the Christian worldview.
Rather, they are a testimony to the compassion of God for human beings benighted by sin and circumstance.
Again, two conflicting views about the topic today.
I'd like to begin this with just asking, well, what is the issue?
What is the primary concern that we're going to address this morning
as we seek to be people that can share and defend the Christian worldview
in the face of tough intellectual questions posed by yourself or from friends or from family.
What's the issue?
Here's how it comes down in one simple phrase.
Can one be scientifically sophisticated and still believe in miracles?
That's the question.
Can you be a contemporary, sophisticated individual
that understands science and runs in those circles?
Can you hold that position and still believe in the miracles in Scripture and today?
The reality is many people have abandoned their faith in God
because they could not reconcile the supposed tension
between the God of the Bible and the tenets of modern science.
They have been unable, for different reasons, to bring those two together.
and they have sided with contemporary science
and left God in the past or in the dust.
And from that position, they believe then
that the scripture is full of myth and story
and fable and legend
and that all the miracles and supernatural events
are simply figments of imagination
to communicate an idea
but do not have any reality in history.
Friends, there's a lot at stake with this issue
about miracles and our contemporary worldview.
So the question is, well, what then really is a miracle?
We've got to make some definitions here.
And I looked at the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy as a place to go,
and I found this definition of miracle.
A miracle is a supernaturally, in parenthesis, divinely caused event,
an event ordinarily different from what would have occurred
in the normal or natural course of events.
They summarize, it is a divine overriding of or an interference with the natural order.
Dr. William Lane Craig, in the book, defines a miracle this way.
An event which is not producible by the natural causes that are operative at the time and place that the event occurs.
Now we're going to unpack those and begin to really wrestle with what are the implications of that.
But I want you to understand the gravity of this issue.
I'm going to share with you some scriptures that clearly define or explain or show a miracle.
And I want us to understand that if we cannot reconcile these, we must throw these out.
1 Kings chapter 18, the Bible says,
At the customary time for offering the evening sacrifice, Elijah the prophet walked up to the altar and prayed,
O Lord God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, prove today that you are God in Israel and that I am your servant.
Prove that I have done all of this at your command.
O Lord, answer me.
Answer me so these people will know that you, O Lord, are God
and that you have brought them back to yourself.
Immediately the fire of the Lord flashed down from heaven
and burned up the young bull, the wood, the stones, and the dust.
It even licked up all the water in the ditch.
And when the people saw it, they fell on their faces and cried out,
the Lord is God. The Lord is God. Amazing scenario. Can we believe it? In Luke chapter 5,
this is told from scripture. One day while Jesus was teaching, some Pharisees and teachers of the
law were sitting nearby. It seemed that these men showed up from every village in all of Galilee and
Judea as well as from Jerusalem. And the Lord's healing power was strongly with Jesus. And some
men carrying a paralyzed man a sleeping mat. They tried to push through the crowd to Jesus,
but they couldn't reach him. So they went up on the roof, took off some tiles, and lowered
the sick man down into the crowd still on his mat, right in front of Jesus. And seeing
their faith, Jesus said to the man, Son, your sins are forgiven. Who does this man
think he is? The Pharisees and teachers of religious law said to each other, This is
blasphemy. Who but God can forgive them, can forgive sin? And Jesus knew what they were
thinking, so he asked them, why do you think this is blasphemy? Is it easier to say your sins are
forgiven, or get up and walk? I will prove that I, the Son of Man, have the authority on earth to
forgive sin. Then Jesus turned to the paralyzed man and said, stand up, take your mat, and go on
home because you are healed. And immediately, as everyone watched, the man jumped to his feet,
picked up his mat, and went home praising God. And everyone was gripped with great wonder and awe,
and they praised God, saying over and over again, we have seen amazing things today. Is it true?
And probably the most important miracle of the scriptures. I'm going to read this one as well.
You can follow along with me from Luke chapter 24. But very early on Sunday morning,
The women came to the tomb, taking the spices they had prepared, and they found the stone
covering the entrance had been rolled aside. So they went in, but they couldn't find the body
of the Lord Jesus. They were puzzled, trying to think what could have happened to it.
And suddenly the two men appeared to them clothed in dazzling robes. The women were terrified and
bowed low before them. Then the men asked, why are you looking in a tomb for someone who is alive?
He isn't here.
He has risen from the dead.
Don't you remember what he told you back in Galilee?
That the Son of Man must be betrayed into the hands of sinful men and be crucified?
And that he would rise again the third day?
And they remembered that he had said this.
So they rushed back to tell his eleven disciples and everyone else what had happened.
And the women who went to the tomb were Mary Magdalene, Joanna, Mary the mother of James, and several others.
And they told the apostles what had happened.
But the story sounded like nonsense, so they didn't believe it.
However, Peter ran to the tomb to look, and stooping, he peered in and saw the empty linen wrappings,
and he went home again, wondering what had happened.
Friends, what do we do with these accounts?
When we're challenged by people who say miracles cannot happen, contemporary science is all that there is,
can we believe them? Can we believe these stories?
Are they fantasy or are they truth and history?
The German physicist Max Planck said this famous phrase.
He said, faith in miracles must yield ground step by step
before the steady and firm advance of the forces of science.
And its total defeat is indubitably a mere matter of time.
He has thrown down the gauntlet.
He is saying that in time, science will prove everything miraculous.
There is no need to step back and believe in a God that can do these things.
So friends, I put it up here again.
Is it rational to believe in miracles?
Is it rational?
Or are you an irrational individual caught up in myth and lore?
I want to phrase it again.
Is it rational for a mind that can build the hardware to split the atom?
Is it rational for that kind of mind to believe in the supernatural or in miracles?
Can I, as a critical thinker, embrace miracles as part of my worldview?
The ancient Roman philosopher, Cicero, said this.
He said, nothing happens without a cause.
And nothing happens unless it can happen.
When that which can happen does in fact happen, it cannot be considered a miracle.
Hence, there are no miracles.
Interesting.
He's basically saying that a miracle is something that cannot happen.
And so if something happens, it's not a miracle.
That there must be some other normal, rational, scientific explanation.
He wouldn't have used the term scientific, but the idea is if it can happen, it can happen.
It's not a miracle.
So what he's saying is don't go there.
Dr. Norman Geisler summarizes the opposition position of Anthony Flew like this.
Number one, miracles are by nature particular and unrepeatable.
Number two, natural events are by nature general and repeatable.
Therefore, number three, now in practice,
the evidence for the general and repeatable is always greater
than that for the particular and the unrepeatable.
Number four, therefore, in practice,
the evidence will always be greater against miracles than for them.
These are different kinds of arguments around the same theme.
Basically, these intellectual men are saying miracles simply cannot happen.
There is an explanation.
There's always a reason behind it that doesn't need a supernatural explanation.
Those sound like strong arguments, don't they?
And if we don't have an answer for that, it's easy for us to walk away and say,
well, I'm not sure.
And maybe in your own spirit, you're saying, I've always wondered about this.
How do we reconcile these issues?
And friends, there are people out there that will abandon their faith on these tenets
and will walk away from worshiping God because of issues like this.
So where do we go from here?
Well, I want to say the crux of the matter is this.
It comes down to the question of whether your worldview is going to allow for miracles or not.
You see, your worldview is the lens through which you look at the world
and you analyze what is happening around you.
It's the view that you have
that answers the questions that are around you.
It can be shaped by science.
It can be shaped by scripture.
It can be shaped by philosophy.
It can be shaped by a smorgasbord of ideas.
But we all have a worldview.
We interpret the world through our own lens in some way.
We make sense of what happens around us
in some fashion based on some principles.
And if you have a preconceived idea that miracles cannot happen,
that's the lens in which you view the world.
If your preconceived worldview does not allow for miracles,
as skeptics and even some Bible scholars will admit,
then you will see miracle stories with a kind of a bias.
I'll give you an example.
If you're an atheistic skeptic, you don't believe there is a God at all,
then you simply deny God's existence when you find a miracle story,
and you deny the Bible as a record of the history of God and his people.
You simply say, fable and lore, interesting, cute, and quaint,
but not something to be believed.
If you are a skeptical Bible scholar, and there are those out there,
and you already preconceived that miracles don't exist,
then you will interpret the miracle stories as perhaps exaggerated by the authors.
Perhaps some other kind of natural phenomena took place
that they didn't understand then, but we now know.
And you can shift your interpretation in that way.
Or, if your worldview allows,
you can come to a miracle passage.
And you can understand the authors
are trying to communicate
that God did something in that situation,
outside of the natural, normal laws that we understand.
And you then look to say,
God, what are you trying to teach me?
See, your worldview is very important.
Does your worldview allow miracles to happen?
So the question is rephrased.
Is it rational to have a worldview that allows for miracles?
And here's the summation of that question.
Here is the bold and I would say very simple answer.
And I put it up on the screen behind me.
Here's the answer.
If God exists, then it is rational to believe that miracles can happen.
If God exists, then it's rational to believe miracles can happen.
Dr. William Lane Craig sums it up very well.
He writes,
If there is a creator who designed and brought the universe into being
and who sustains it moment by moment,
who is responsible for the very laws of nature that govern the physical world,
then certainly it's rational to believe that the miraculous is possible.
Do you see how this works?
If there is a God that set this whole thing up, it is rational to believe that it's possible he could do something different.
So I want to come back to that definition of a miracle again.
A miracle is, and it's up here on the screen, an event which is not producible by natural causes that are operative at the time and place the event occurs.
Let's leave that up for a few moments.
Friends, miracles lie outside the realm of science.
And see, miracles don't contradict science.
They simply are outside of it.
Because the physical laws that we operate by,
gravity, what holds us here to this earth,
momentum, the physical laws we learn about,
that some of us as engineers and scientists work with on a daily basis,
all those laws have their own consistency.
They operate over and over and over with regularity.
But the underlying notion is this,
that there's nothing else working upon them.
You see, a miracle is not a violation of natural law.
It's simply adding another variable to the equation.
J.P. Moreland from Talbot Seminary down the road
gives an example about this issue.
If you drop an object, it falls to earth.
And it will do that over and over and over again.
You can use the apple falling off a tree.
It will fall over and over.
That's the law.
assuming nothing else is working on that apple.
As gravity pulls it down to the earth,
we can measure the speed,
and it happens over and over and over.
But you can, as a human being,
intervene, stick your arm out, and catch it.
You have not violated the law of gravity.
You've simply intervened.
You've added something else to the equation.
It doesn't mean that gravity doesn't still happen.
It doesn't mean that apples,
when they fall off trees, don't hit the ground.
But there's one more variable.
You are there to intervene.
You haven't contradicted the law.
you simply added something else to it.
And that is what I would like to argue
is what happens when a miracle occurs.
God doesn't overturn the laws of nature.
God merely intervenes.
So if there is a God,
then that scenario of a miracle
is entirely rational and reasonable.
For Brent's birthday,
he got that classic game, Mousetrap.
Do you know what I'm talking about?
Back from the 70s, some of your kids,
maybe you've played this game,
And you build this little contraption where when it all goes at the end, you turn the crank that hits the boot, that knocks the ball, that goes down the little wiggle, that runs down the little corridor, hits the hand, drops another ball into the bathtub, which drops it onto a seesaw, flying the little man into the dish, whereby the trap comes down and catches the mouse.
Did you follow that?
You know what I'm talking about.
From the perspective of the little plastic mouse, every time the crank is turned, all of these things happen and eventually the trap comes down.
But Brent and I were having fun with trying different scenarios in this thing.
We began to explore and there were times when he'd turn the crank and I would drop a ball earlier than was supposed to happen and we could disrupt the mechanism.
Or I could simply withdraw a piece from the whole contraption and the trap would not come down.
From the perspective of the mouse, a miracle has happened.
Because he knows when you turn the crank and it goes to the boot and it goes to the ball and down and around,
all these things take place.
He knows it's going to happen.
He's going to be caught.
But I can, as somebody outside the game, I can simply intervene.
I can just stop the production.
Or I can speed it up.
I can do all kinds of things to manipulate that game.
I've not violated the game under normal circumstances.
When you turn the crank and the boot goes and on and on and on, it always happens.
But I can intervene.
From the perspective of the mouse, I am God.
And a miracle has happened.
In a car engine, when the initial conditions are all the same,
if you have everything hooked up right,
the law is you turn the crank, the spark goes, and the engine turns over.
But I can intervene and pull a plug.
I can intervene and withdraw a spark plug.
I can do things to disrupt the natural laws of a car motor.
Have I violated the law of the car motor?
No, Karmota still do those things, but I as an agent outside can intervene and do something
different. Can you begin to see different examples that might come to mind of what it means to
intervene in a system that under natural circumstances always goes to conclusion,
but because another agent has come in there, you can change it and thereby produce a miracle.
So the whole argument you can see rests on this issue. Does God exist? Because if God does exist,
it's rational to believe that he could intervene and there could be miracles. See, once you accept
that God exists, it's not a stretch to understand that he can do those kinds of things if he so
chooses. But that last comment I just made is the crux of the matter for some people,
if he so chooses. If God so chooses, perhaps some of you have asked for a miracle and nothing has
happened. That's a particularly sensitive issue when it comes to the issue of healing and miracles.
What do we do?
We believe that God exists, and yet there is no healing.
Now we've asked a whole different set of questions.
Dr. Craig has asked that question by Lee Strobel in the book, if you've read it.
It's a very poignant issue for Dr. Craig,
because Dr. Craig has a congenital neuromuscular disease
that causes atrophy in his extremities.
So here is this great theologian, this great philosopher,
Two PhDs, one in theology and one in philosophy.
One of the greatest minds on the earth
is suffering from a congenital neuromuscular disease
that affects the limbs and they shake
and they're not able to control things like others.
And Strobel asked him this question.
He basically asked him, Dr. Craig,
if God loves you and has all the power,
why haven't you been healed?
And Dr. Craig says that though he had prayed for healing
when he was younger, he doesn't pray for healing anymore.
And listen to his answer, and I'm quoting it here.
He writes,
As I look at my life, God has used this disease in so many remarkable ways to shape me and my personality.
He writes,
Because I couldn't do athletics in order to succeed at something, I was driven into academics.
I really owe my existence as a scholar to my having this disease.
It's what compelled me to the life of the mind.
and it also affected me psychologically giving me a tremendous drive to succeed and it caused me to
have an achievement and a goal orientation which has helped me to do a lot in my life he says so
I've really seen playing out in a very personal way what Paul said that his strength is made perfect
in weakness just because you've asked for a miracle it doesn't mean that it will be granted
a different topic for a different day but friends God is not a vending machine he is a person with
choice and God has a larger perspective on our lives and the workings of the universe
and can choose to do certain things and can choose not to and it's his prerogative and
we need to let God be God and trust him knowing the Bible affirms he is still good even when
there are things we don't understand happening around us.
I want to now point to this final issue because this really is the crux now of the matter,
why we should believe in God.
To believe in miracles, we've argued, is rational if there's a God.
So the original question about miracles is really this.
It's not really about miracles.
It's really about, is there a God at all?
Because if there is, it's rational to believe that a miracle can happen.
So how do we know, really, that there's a God?
Dr. Craig, in his brilliance, lays out five evidences, and I want to share them with you.
Here's why he argues we should believe in a miracle-working God.
The first one is this, that God makes sense of the origins of the universe.
You see, scientists across the board of different philosophical persuasions,
different religions, and so forth,
they will still tell us that at some point, time T in the past,
that the universe had a beginning.
In our experience, something does not come out of nothing.
We argue there has to be a transcendent cause beyond space and time,
that the universe is brought into being from a cause, from a causer.
Craig's argument goes like this.
Whatever begins to exist has a cause.
The universe began to exist.
Therefore, the universe has a cause.
We'll call that cause God.
That's actually the intro to next week's message on creation and evolution.
I hope you'll come because we're going to tackle that one
and really wrestle with the causes and the mechanisms for the universe.
But I want to conclude with this point by saying that
to understand the universe's origins,
you've got to have a God to start it.
So that's the first point.
The second one is that God makes sense of the universe's complexity.
Dr. Craig says,
In the last 35 years, scientists have been stunned to discover
that the Big Bang was not some chaotic primordial event,
but rather a highly ordered event
that required an enormous amount of information.
In fact, from the very moment of its inception,
the universe had to be fine-tuned
to an incomprehensible precision
for the existence of life like ourselves.
And that points in a very compelling way, he says,
toward the existence of an intelligent designer.
Now, if you've got a scientific or a technical background,
and I'm going to rattle off some facts
that I think you'll find fascinating
about how fine-tuned our universe is for life.
British physicist P.C.W. Davies has concluded
that the odds against the original conditions
being suitable for the formation of stars,
which are necessary for planets and then ultimately for life,
is followed by at least 1,000 billion billion zeros.
Wow.
Davies also estimates that the strength of gravity
or of the weak force at the atomic level.
If it were changed, even one part in ten
followed by a hundred zeros,
life could never have developed.
And also he says there are about 50 constants and quantities,
for example, the amount of usable energy in the universe,
the difference in mass between protons and neutrons,
the rations of the fundamental forces of nature,
and the proportion of matter to antimatter
that must be balanced to a mathematically infinitesimal degree
for any life to be possible.
Friends, if we argue for a cosmic accident,
we are not on solid ground.
And more about that next week.
If you want to read ahead, though,
Dr. Hugh Ross's book, The Creator and the Cosmos,
will lay out the physics and the realities of those issues.
Number three, God makes sense of objective moral values.
Now, we leave science for a moment,
and we move into the humanities.
And this argument goes like this.
If God does not exist,
then objective morals and values do not exist.
No matter how much you want to argue for a utilitarian sense
that morals are good for planet Earth,
I would say yes they are,
but you cannot prove that any one is truly better than the other.
There's no objective sense of truth.
Because if we're all an accident
and there's no God who defines objective reality,
then however you or I decide to concoct our morality
is up to us.
but you know what deep down when we get really honest when we really probe the depths of our
own being we know that we don't live that way we know deep down that somewhere in our soul
that child cruelty is just wrong it's just wrong objectively around the world in any culture
that is just evil.
And the challenge is,
where do we get that sense of universal notion
that something is cruel, evil, or wrong?
Where does that come from?
We know from our own experience
that crashing airplanes into buildings
is evil and wrong.
Just know that.
Where do we get the audacity to believe that
if we are just an accident and there is no God?
In fact, if there's no God, the challenge is, what is so special about human beings at all?
If there's no God, then truly there isn't much difference between humans and animals,
and we're justified then in living like animals.
But if there's a God, the story's different.
And friends, we don't live that way.
Somehow, there's something across the board in humanity that wants to rise and live higher,
and live moral and ethical lives.
When funerals are given, we talk about transcendent qualities of personhood.
We talk about goodness and the things that make us truly human, that rise above animals.
Where do we get those notions if there's no God?
There's no rational reason for it.
God makes sense of the fact that we do agree there are objective moral values in our world.
Number four, God makes sense of the resurrection.
You see, the resurrection of Jesus Christ on Easter morning
is one of those pivotal elements of the Christian faith.
And the question is, why should we believe it?
And there are four facts about that resurrection morning that,
or rather the whole event of Jesus' crucifixion and resurrection,
that are widely accepted by New Testament scholars from a variety of backgrounds.
I'm just going to lay them out. I didn't put them on the screen.
Just listen to these.
But these are the four facts that are widely accepted.
Jesus was buried by Joseph of Arimathea in a tomb.
We don't question that one.
He was buried and put in a tomb.
The second thing is the tomb was found empty by the women, followers of Jesus,
on the Sunday after the crucifixion.
We heard the story earlier.
Now reality is this, that in that time and place,
the testimony of women was considered unreliable and not used in Jewish courts.
And yet, the women were the ones that came and told the story.
Why would the authors, if they were making up a story, include the women?
On various occasions and with varying numbers, people experienced appearance of Jesus alive from the tomb.
Mass delusion is one explanation.
But what is the best explanation for how multiple people in multiple places experienced the resurrected Jesus?
and finally the disciples suddenly and sincerely came to believe
that Jesus was risen from the dead
despite their predilection to the contrary.
They were not disposed, predisposed to believe in that.
It was not part of the program.
But they came to believe it.
It changed their worldview.
It changed their lives to the point where they were all willing to be martyred for the cause.
If they knew it was a lie, would they really be willing to be martyred for a lie?
That's the question we have to ask.
Is it rational to believe that?
Time Magazine 1995 in the April edition issue says this,
If scholars need multiple independent sources to prove an event occurred,
the evidence is much stronger for Jesus' miracles than for any other ancient events that are never challenged,
says Murray Harris, a conservative Bible professor at Trinity Evangelical Divinity School in Deerfield, Illinois.
He writes,
we have the empty tomb in all four Gospels, representing three, if not four, independent
sources and appearances of the risen Christ in three Gospels, and they're clearly not
copying one another. Harris gets impatient with the questioning of the standards of proof
applied to the Gospels. He says, we have only two first century accounts of Hannibal's unlikely
uncrossing of the Alps, with thirty-eight elephants in tow. But no one doubts that it
happened. For some reason, though, we have this incredible desire to doubt the resurrection
story. We'll believe a lot of things from history that have very little evidence and we accept them
as true, but somehow when it comes to the gospel accounts, we put them under a different kind of
scrutiny and we come up and we try to force them into different molds that say something different
than what is rational to believe that what really happened, that Jesus rose from the dead.
What is the best explanation of all of those facts? And I'm going to argue the best scenario
is to point to the fact that God raised Jesus from the dead.
And finally, number five.
God can be immediately experienced.
It's a final proof that Dr. Craig lays out.
It says, you know, it's kind of subjective,
but aside from all of these principles,
another reality exists that people have an experience with Jesus.
People have an experience with God.
People read the Bible and they're profoundly affected.
affected. People's lives change when they give their life to Jesus Christ. People experience
answers to prayer. And the critical mind must step back and say, what's the best explanation
for all those people having these real experiences with God? It seems subjective, but think about
it. All around the world, in different cultures and languages and races, our people have an
experience with Jesus Christ? What does all that evidence point to? Mere delusion? Group think?
What's the best explanation for that? Let me close with this story. Not long after Dallas
Seminary was founded in 1924, bankruptcy knocked at the doors. And by noon on one particular day,
every creditor threatened to foreclose the school. And that morning, the founders of the seminary
met to pray in President Louis Sperry Schaeffer's office, and they asked God to provide the needed
funds. And Harry Ironside was part of that prayer meeting. And when it was his turn to pray,
he prayed in his very characteristically pointed manner. He prayed this,
Lord, we know the cattle on a thousand hills are thine. Please sell some of them and send us
the money. Now that's faith. That is pointed prayer. Meanwhile, as his men were praying,
Into the seminary's business office came a tall Texan, and addressing the secretary, he said this,
I just sold two carloads of cattle in Fort Worth. I've been trying to make another business deal go
through, and it won't work. I feel that God is compelling me to give some money of this cattle
money to the seminary. I don't know if you need it or not, but here's the check. Well, the secretary
was well aware of what the prayer meeting was about in the next room. She also knew how serious
the financial straits the seminary was in.
And so she took the check and knocked on the door,
and they finally got a response, and they welcomed her in,
and she presented the check to Louis Sperry Schaefer,
and he stood and looked at it with amazement
because the amount of the check exactly was the amount of the debt
that was needed to be paid.
Exactly.
And looking at the signature on the check,
this gentleman recognized the name of the cattle rancher.
And he turned to Harry Ironside, the one who had prayed so boldly,
and he said, Harry, God sold the cattle.
Now you tell me, friends,
what is the best explanation with that experience?
Blind chance?
Or a God that finds it fun and humorous at times
to teach us about his power and his existence
by orchestrating events and intervening in a situation outside of the norm?
you tell me what's the most rational explanation
for a miracle
Father in heaven
