I can't imagine a more timely passage than the one I've been asked to speak on this morning.
Because at its heart, it's about looking beyond our present anxiety and seeing God and seeing His purposes,
His unstoppable purposes at work in the world.
But before I get too deep into the passage, I want to take a little slice of my own life and share it with you.
because it connects, I think, to the way the passage describes the emotions flying around
the room. So here's a ritual that repeats nearly every Friday in the Reimer household.
Jenny and I wake up, sometimes together, though usually she beats me to it, I have to admit that
frankly, and Ariana is often at this point still sleeping. She's usually in her own bed,
but occasionally, like if she's woken up at five with the night frights or something like that,
She's between us at some bizarre acrobatic angle,
so her feet are in my face,
and her head is resting on Jenny's stomach,
and she's got a fistful of Jenny's hair,
and she's just spread-eagled.
It's amazing the contorting positions she can put herself into.
And about a half an hour after this point,
three college students, three tousle-headed college students,
show up at my apartment at the glass door to my living room
in faded t-shirts and running shoes, and so I groggily drag myself off the couch, out of bed,
put on my own running shoes, and it's off we go for about three and a half, four miles of
self-inflicted torture. Now at this point, Ariana is usually still snuggled with mommy,
or on the couch, just kind of looking in that sort of dazed, I just woke up frame of mind.
So she doesn't care that Daddy is leaving to go jogging.
It doesn't really faze her.
She's too sleepy.
She's too content to care.
On the other hand, when I get back,
and the college students go home and go about their Fridays,
and I jump in the shower, and I wolf down breakfast,
and I, you know, throw on my clothes and head out the door,
Ariana, my two-year-old daughter, is right there beside me,
following me out the door.
and here's something that invariably happens.
I shut the door ever so gingerly behind myself
to make sure she doesn't get bonked or hurt
and she just doesn't understand.
I mean, why isn't she going with me?
She's in her PJ.
She's got her dolly that goes potty.
I mean, she's ready to go.
Why can't she come?
And so the door clicks shut
and I hear this wail on the other side of the door
which is, Mama!
Because I'm Mama too.
Jenny's mama, I'm mama.
We're both mama at this point.
And I hear this wailing through the door,
and I hear this wailing as I walk down the hallway,
out of my apartment complex,
mixed with the sounds of Jenny trying to distract her and soothe her.
And I hear this wailing in my head as I climb into the truck
to go to school or to work or to wherever it is I'm going that Friday.
And, yeah, I've gotten used to this.
It's something all of us parents go through.
But the sound that I hear in my head is the sound of a two-year-old
that just doesn't understand why I'm leaving.
She doesn't care about the higher purposes behind my day
or why I go to work or why I study or why I go through this daily grind.
All she sees is me leaving, and all she wants to do is come with me.
That's it.
And see, that is something like the mood that surrounds Jesus
in the room where he and his disciples have just eaten their last meal,
the last one they'll eat prior to Jesus' crucifixion.
They were worried, and let's be honest, they had good cause to be worried,
because in chapter 13, Judas Iscariot, the disciple who eventually betrays Jesus,
has already left the meal in a big hurry with no explanation,
you know, just a few nervous glances from side to side, and he's gone.
He's out the door without a word, and they're beginning to talk.
What was that all about?
And to make matters worse than Judas' awkward exit,
Jesus is also hinting in subtle and maybe not so subtle ways that he's going to leave too.
He says,
My children, I will be with you only a little longer.
You will look for me just as I told the Jews,
so I tell you now where I am going.
You can't come.
to which the outspoken leader of the disciples, Peter, responds,
Lord, why can't I follow you now? I will lay down my life for you.
And what Jesus says next just makes matters worse.
I'm imagining the temperature in the room dropped about 30 degrees
when Jesus said this next sentence.
Huh, will you really lay down your life for me?
I tell you the truth, before the rooster crows, you will disown me three times.
And the door swings shut, and the two-year-old starts to cry.
But see, then, like Jenny, picking up Ariana just to soothe her and comfort her and distract her,
Jesus turns to all of his disciples in their fear and in their confusion,
some probably with tears streaming down their face at this point,
and he speaks gently to them.
He comforts them.
He explains matters to them.
And here is our very long, very meaty passage this morning.
John, chapter 14, in its entirety.
Do not let your hearts be troubled.
Trust in God.
Trust also in me.
In my Father's house are many rooms.
If it were not so, I would have told you.
I am going to prepare a place for you.
I will come back and take you to be with me,
that you also may be where I am.
You know the way to the place I'm going.
Thomas said to him,
Lord, we don't know where you're going,
so how can we know the way?
Maybe he said it in a more high-pitched voice
than the one I just read it in.
Jesus answered, I am the way,
and the truth, and the life.
no one comes to the Father except through me.
If you really knew me, you would know my Father as well.
From now on, you do know him and have seen him.
Philip said, Lord, show us the Father
and that'll be enough. Jesus answered, don't you
know me, Philip? Even after I have been among you such a
long time, anyone who has seen me has seen the Father.
How can you say, show us the Father?
Don't you believe that I am in the Father and that the Father is in me?
The words I say are not just my own.
Rather, it is the Father living in me who is doing the work.
Believe me when I say to you that I am in the Father and the Father is in me.
Or at least believe the miracles, the evidence of the miracles themselves.
I tell you the truth.
Anyone who has faith in me, anyone, will do what I have been doing.
He will do even greater things than these, because I am going to the Father.
And I will do whatever you ask in my name, so that the Son may bring glory to the Father.
You may ask for anything in my name, and I will do it.
If you love me, you will obey what I command.
I will ask the Father, and He will give you another Counselor to be with you forever, the Spirit of Truth.
The world cannot accept Him, because it neither sees Him nor knows Him.
But you know Him, for He lives with you and will be in you.
I will not leave you as orphans. I will come to you.
Before long, the world will not see me anymore, but you will see me.
Because I live, you also will live.
On that day, you will realize that I am in my Father, and you are in me, and I am in you.
Whoever has my commands and obeys them, he is the one who loves me.
He who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I too will love him and show myself to him.
Then Judas, not Judas Iscariot, said,
But Lord, why do you intend to show yourself to us and not the world?
I mean, come on, Jesus, let's go public with this.
And Jesus replied,
If anyone loves me, he will obey my teaching.
My Father will love him, and we will come to him and make our home with him.
He who does not love me will not obey my teaching.
These words you hear are not my own.
They belong to the Father who sent me.
All that I have spoken while still with you, all this I have spoken while still with you.
But the Counselor, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, will teach you all things and remind you of everything I have said to you.
Peace I leave with you. My peace I give to you.
I do not give to you as the world gives.
Do not let your hearts be troubled, and do not be afraid.
That's the refrain.
You heard me say, I'm going away, and I'm coming back to you.
If you loved me, you would be glad that I am going to the Father,
for the Father is greater than I.
I have told you now before it happens, so that when it does happen, you will believe.
I will not speak with you much longer, for the Prince of this world is coming.
He has no hold on me, but the world must learn that I love the Father
and that I do exactly what my Father has commanded me.
There's a lot here to unpack.
For one, Jesus is preparing his followers, most obviously,
for the shock of his crucifixion,
the time that's soon coming when all the miracles,
all the exorcisms, all the healings,
all the wisdom that Jesus taught
is just going to be seemingly swallowed up
by this evil, catastrophic tragedy.
As Jesus puts it, the prince of this world is coming,
and he, meaning Satan, has no hold on me.
But the world must learn that I love the Father
and that I do exactly what my Father has commanded me.
In other words, the world needs to see that I, Jesus,
obey my Father to the bitter end, even crucifixion.
But more important than bracing his disciples for the worst,
beyond the crucifixion is something deeper something that even death on a cross will not
and cannot destroy his disciples have an unbroken and unbreakable connection to him
and an unbroken and unbreakable connection to god the father through him you see thomas
echoes peter he pleads with jesus and this is my paraphrase so bear with me what's all this
talk about you leaving? Leaving where? How are we supposed to find our way back to you when we don't
even know your destination? And Jesus replies, I'm the way, I'm the destination, and the truth,
and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. If you really knew me, you would know
my Father as well. From now on, you do know him and have seen him. And another disciple, Philip,
still not quite getting it, says. Look, Jesus, come on, enough with the riddles already.
Just show us God. Just make him show up right here, right now, in this room, in the flesh,
please. Just remove all of our doubts. You tell us to trust the Father, your Father, to trust this
God. So show us God already. Don't beat around the bush. Don't tell us you're leaving to go back to
the Father. Just show us your Father. Bring him here. Make him our Father, and that'll be enough
no matter what happens to us or to you. Just show us the Father, please, Jesus. And so then Jesus
drops the bomb. He made a claim here that is so outrageous that the world has either been owning
it, ignoring it, or just going to great lengths to reject it ever since. He says, don't you know
me, Philip? Even after I have been among you such a long time, anyone who has seen me has seen the
Father. How can you say, show us the Father? Don't you believe that I am in the Father and that the
Father is in me? The words I say to you are not just my own. Rather, it is the Father living in me
who is doing the work. Believe me when I say to you, Philip, that I am in the Father and that the
Father is in me. Or at least believe in the evidence of the miracles themselves. I tell you
the truth, anyone who has faith in me will do what I have been doing. Anyone. He will do even greater
things than these because I am going to the Father. And I will do whatever you ask in my name
so that the Son may bring glory to the Father.
You may ask for anything in my name, and I will do it.
You've seen God.
You've seen me.
You're looking at him.
You've seen all of the Father that you need to see.
Everything I've said and done, those were his words and his doing.
Believe it.
You say the Father is enough for you, and I absolutely agree with you, Philip,
because you've seen me and believed in me.
you, Philip, you, disciples, will begin to do the things that you've seen me doing. You will begin
to speak the things that you've heard me teaching. You've listened to the Father. I've listened to
the Father. You will do all the things that I've been doing, and you will do more. In fact, let's
just do the math, disciples. There won't just be one of me anymore. There will be armies of me,
followers of me, attuned to God's will, attuned to the Father's will, as I have been attuned
to the Father's will. And they, you, will do his work in the world. You see, Jesus is trying to
teach a very simple, very profound thing in this time of great anxiety. As Henry Blackaby puts it,
he's saying, hey, disciples, join God in what he's already doing.
And he's not simply telling them what to do.
He's giving them the power to do it.
If you love me, you will obey what I command.
And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another counselor
to be with you forever, the Spirit of truth.
The world cannot accept him because it neither sees him nor knows him.
but you know him for he lives with you and will be in you. I will not leave you as orphans. I will
come to you. I will come to you. Before long the world will not see me anymore but you will see me
because I live you also will live. Jesus promises that he will not leave his disciples, that he will
not leave us. He promises disciples that the horror they're about to face, the death of their
teacher, the guy they'd pinned all their hopes on, publicly executed, that doesn't necessarily spell
catastrophe and abandonment. But Jesus also knew perfectly well that that is exactly how the
disciples felt at this moment. They were screaming and crying because the front door of their safe
little world had swung shut, and their teacher was on the other side, leaving to do his father's
work. And in their ignorance, they wanted to come too. Daddy, take us with you. But instead, Jesus
promises them something better. Better because the unbroken connection between himself and God
will become the unbroken connection between God and us. That the Holy Spirit will be with his
followers and in his followers, just as plainly as Jesus sitting next to them, just as palpably,
just as real as Jesus teaching you after a meal. Our English translations give us Jesus promises
a counselor, the spirit of truth that lives with us and in us forever. But the Greek word, and I
don't do this very often, but it's very important, the Greek word here is perikletos, and the word is
a lot more loaded than our English translation suggests. This is not an invisible voice like a
little divine Jiminy Cricket whispering advice into Pinocchio's ear. This is more than just a
counselor as we think of it, like a psychologist or a therapist who helps us deal with our inner
hurts. And yes, the Holy Spirit does breathe comfort into a hurting heart. But the word John
uses, parakletos, means advocate. It's something closer to a lawyer arguing our case in the trial
of the century, all right? The word means power. It doesn't just mean solace or comfort or smart
advice. It means that the Holy Spirit lives in us more permanently and more intimately than Jesus,
even Jesus in the flesh, ever could. As Paul puts it in Romans, the Spirit helps us in our weakness.
We do not know what we ought to pray for, but the Spirit himself intercedes for us with groans that words cannot express.
And he who searches our hearts and minds knows the mind of the Spirit,
because the Spirit intercedes for the saints in accordance with God's will.
Parakletos means we share the same connection to God that Jesus has shared with his Father.
And it means that God isn't just Jesus' Father anymore.
our belief means that he is our father through his spirit we share the same relationship that
god uses to direct christ to heal the sick to raise the dead to cleanse lepers to cast out
demons and to speak the truth of god to a soul sick dying world you see when all is said and done
Jesus promises the Holy Spirit as a way of passing the torch. He's passing the torch of his ministry
to his disciples, to us. Jesus himself goes to his death and he goes to his father. He goes to
his resurrection, the final proof that God will never abandon his own. And that's the story of
Easter and we're going to be telling it again soon. But to us, he doesn't give a cross. He gives
the ministry here on earth. Up to this point, the disciples were very willing
to follow Jesus. I believe that. And they were willing to be with him
just for the sake of being in his presence. They were willing to do crowd control
at the big rallies that Jesus had. They were willing to say, hey, look at
this guy we're following. Go, Jesus. Man, surely this is the
Son of God. You know, I even believe Peter when he says that
he was willing to go to his death for Jesus. Or I at least
believe in the moment, Peter really meant that. But see, Jesus has something a lot harder than
martyrdom in store for Peter. He wants Peter and Philip and Thomas and all the rest to carry on
his work. And that means sharing glory and sharing responsibility of working out the Father's will
on earth. They, and now not just he, have a job to do, and that is what it means that the Holy Spirit
is coming. That's what it means that the paraclete, the counselor, the advocate is coming, that they
have a job to do, that we have a job to do. You see, like the first disciples, a lot of us know a great
deal about Christ, who he was, what he did, what he taught, where and when he lived, and we're content
to follow behind him like his disciples at a safe distance sometimes. We approve of all he does. We
approve of all he says. We say, hey, great story, Jesus, or how profound, Jesus, or those were a
pretty amazing batch of miracles you did, Jesus. And some of us hear these stories year upon year,
maybe too often, but have we really heard them, heard them? The promise of the Holy Spirit is
Christ's invitation to his ministry, not just to learn more about his ministry. And let's be honest
with ourselves, we don't need necessarily another sermon, or another spiritual formation class, or
Sunday school class, or seminar, or conference, or anything, any mountaintop experience to peak or
rekindle our interest in Christ. Not like we need to know God's Spirit and have him living within us.
These are all great resources, and I wouldn't discourage any of them.
I think they're fantastic.
But they're not substitutes, and they never will be substitutes for the reality.
The Holy Spirit, the counselor, the advocate, speaking straight to us,
teaching us, and involving us in God's work.
Because that is, simply folks, the real deal.
A relationship with Christ is a relationship, not with a historical truth, but a relationship to His real living presence, His Holy Spirit.
It's accepting joy and accepting responsibility of God's purposes for our lives.
It means that we're given the unbroken, unbreakable presence of God in our hearts and in our lives, and it means that we're given a job to do.
And personally, I don't necessarily believe in ecstatic experience of the Holy Spirit for its own sake.
I just believe that whether God moves in a spectacular way in your heart,
or whether He moves in a quiet way, in a dignified way,
that it's for one reason only, His reason, His kingdom work getting done.
That is all and all the Holy Spirit will ever be about,
God's kingdom work getting carried out on earth.
And here's the invitation this morning.
It's very simple.
Do you want God's Spirit to give you power and purpose enough
to do the work that God has set out for you?
That's it.
If you'd like to talk to me or to Pastor Kirk
or to any of our prayer team afterwards,
to receive prayer and to receive teaching,
maybe further teaching about what it means
to have the Holy Spirit at work in your life,
to have an intimate connection to the Holy Spirit
and not just more knowledge about Jesus Christ,
then let us pray with you.
Let us initiate you on the journey.
We have a job for you to do,
or rather, He has a job for you to do.
That's never a problem.
That's never a worry.
We just want to be there
to help facilitate this relationship
because it's more important than any other
that you'll ever have.
So let's pray together.
Heavenly Father,
Your Spirit gives us purpose.
Your Spirit gives us a job.
your spirit gives us life
and your spirit takes us
home when all this life
is done and we thank you
that rather than leaving us as orphans
you gave us a strong
central unbreakable connection
to you one that
dictates how we live
our lives and where we
take our lives Father God
we pray as Jesus did
your kingdom come
through the outworking of the Holy Spirit
in the life of your saints.
We pray all this in Jesus' name.
Amen.
