You've had turkey dinner, turkey sandwiches, turkey omelets, turkey casseroles, turkey burgers.
You have worked that bird into every possible new innovation for weekend feasting as possible.
And I understand this morning you can get turkey tamales on the plaza after this service.
It was a fun time. I trust that you had a good holiday.
And now your hearts turn from the big meal to the Friday morning big shopping deal.
My newspaper got two inches thicker just like that.
It was like the Sunday morning shopping experience, but it was Thursday and it was Friday and it's been ever since.
More ads, more pull-outs to display all the hottest things that you're out to buy that you've got to have.
television commercials have started pulling on my kids like you wouldn't believe
you would believe you've been there you're still there you know how this goes and some of you
crazy as i think you are have already braved the crowds some of you started friday morning you've
been out there christmas season has begun in full force and as the jingle is playing in the mall
Santa Claus is coming to town. But there's more to the story than red cheeks and red hat,
praise the Lord. On the first day of Advent, the church, we are looking forward to not just the
coming of Santa, but the coming of Jesus Christ. We're looking forward to the coming of our leader
and our forgiver. And we wait expectantly, not only for the baby in the manger, but also for the
returning Lord. Our minds and our hearts, they begin to turn both to that cooing infant and the
descending judge of our souls. But right outside these walls, right outside this building, our
culture is enamored with Saint Nick and not with Jesus Christ you know the song he's making a list
he's checking it twice he's gonna find out who's naughty and nice he sees you when you're sleeping
he knows when you're awake he knows when you've been bad or good so the song goes so be good for
goodness sake you better not pout or cry you better watch out why i'm telling you why because
santa claus they say is coming to town well the truth is here there is truth in that song santa
claus is coming to town i think it's a secular hymn for advent you've probably never thought
of it that way if you insert jesus christ into that song it's true it's true we're going to
unpack that this morning and i want us to turn our attention as we begin to a teaching of jesus
near the end of his ministry that shares about his return and about him coming to claim his own
In Luke chapter 21, verses 25 to 36, Jesus says,
And there will be strange events in the skies, signs in the sun, moon, and the stars.
And down here on earth the nations will be in turmoil, perplexed by the roaring seas and the strange tides.
the courage of many people will falter
because of the fearful fate they see coming upon the earth
because the stability of the very heavens will be broken up
then everyone will see the Son of Man
arrive on the clouds with power and great glory
so when all these things begin to happen
stand straight and look up
for your salvation is near
And he gave them this illustration.
Notice the fig tree or any other tree.
When the leaves come out, you know without being told that summer is near.
Just so, when you see the events I've described taking place,
you can be sure the kingdom of God is near.
I assure you this generation will not pass from the scene until all these events have taken place.
heaven and earth will disappear but my words will remain forever watch out don't let me find you
living in careless ease and drunkenness and filled with the worries of this life don't let that day
catch you unaware as in a trap for that day will come upon every living on the earth keep a constant
And watch and pray, if possible, you may escape these horrors and stand before the Son of Man.
Wow, those are heavy and powerful images.
I think I like the Santa Claus version better.
Friends, Jesus is building a list.
And if you'll permit me to extend it, he's checking it twice.
Jesus knows who's been naughty and nice.
God sees you when you're sleeping and knows when you are awake.
God knows every action, every thought that emanates from our very souls.
And for that reason, we're to watch out and examine our souls and get ready for the return of the Lord.
You see, we like the Santa Claus version better because, frankly, it's more docile.
It's more charming.
It's easier to take.
Santa Claus' judgment involves things like toys or coal in your stocking.
Jesus' judgment has to do with signs in the heavens and the unraveling of the world.
And let's be honest, our culture tends to downplay and even resist the reality that God has the authority
to judge the world and to punish unrighteousness.
Our culture doesn't want to hear that.
The culture likes Jesus to be a moral teacher.
But Jesus is more than a moral teacher.
He's the coming judge of the world.
Look at what he says.
Luke 21, verse 20, a few verses before.
Jesus says,
And when you see Jerusalem surrounded by armies,
then you will know the time of its destruction has arrived.
Then those in Judea must flee to the hills.
Let those in Jerusalem escape, and those outside the city should not enter it for shelter.
For those will be days of God's vengeance, and the prophetic words of the Scriptures will be fulfilled.
When Jesus made that bold prediction, He's not acting just as a moral teacher.
He's predicting the future.
He's preaching as a prophet.
it. And in A.D. 70, the armies of Rome came and sacked Jerusalem and thousands died. The
temple was destroyed down to the last bricks. And everything Jesus predicted was true. And
now Jesus in this next passage is warning us about the end of the world. And he's not
giving us signs that we can predict when he will come. But he's telling us that he will.
The church that I grew up in, a couple different churches I grew up in,
just loved to try and predict when Jesus was going to come again.
I was raised on a steady diet of trying to figure out when he's coming again.
We love to create timelines and charts and diagrams to understand the sweep of history
and how it will culminate.
But I love it when the disciples asked Jesus about his return.
In effect, he said, hey folks, mind your own business.
and live out your calling faithfully
in the power of the Holy Spirit.
I love it in Acts chapter 1,
verse 6 and 7,
when the apostles with Jesus,
they kept asking him,
Lord, are you going to free Israel now
and restore the kingdom?
And Jesus replies,
the Father sets those dates.
They're not for you to know.
But when the Holy Spirit has come upon you,
you will receive power
and will tell people about me everywhere.
In Jerusalem, throughout Judea, in Samaria, and to the ends of the earth.
I think that's good advice for us.
Jesus is the judge who will come again someday.
And we're going to find ourselves before the judgment seat.
The when is not important.
The reality is that he's coming again.
And it might be in our lifetime, or it may not.
But like that song said, Jesus is coming.
Let's be ready if he came this afternoon.
And what do you want to present to the king?
Your faithfulness or our flakiness?
What do we want to offer to our king?
Our life lived in obedience and trust and lived by the power of the Holy Spirit
or our ambivalence, our flakiness?
The secular song says that Santa Claus is checking the list and coming to town.
The reality is that Jesus has the record of those who have given their lives to him.
And he's coming one day to take his followers home forever.
That's what Advent is about.
It's about our waiting and our expecting and our hoping
and our looking forward to the baby coming on Christmas Day.
and then he's coming again to judge the world
and to take his followers home to heaven forever.
So how do we as the church, how do we respond?
I think first, we must rejoice.
We must rejoice.
Christmas time is a time of rejoicing
for the Savior was born in Bethlehem
and Christmas is the beginning of the life of Jesus on earth
which culminates in his ascending to God and our eventual reunion with him.
Christmas is a time of remembering that God is in control.
At the time when Jesus was born, things were chaotic and seeming to be out of control,
and God enters our history in a baby.
God is in control.
In God's plan, the Bible uses the words,
in the fullness of time he sent his son for us and christmas is a time when we reflect
on the reality that god is working out his plan for saving human beings from judgment
friends you might be some of you here this morning and you may have little hope for the
issues of your life seem daunting and you're sitting here needing encouragement and a reason
to go on and continue the fight, the good news is
that God is in control. He has you
here for a purpose. He's got you here this morning even
to encourage you and to love you and to give you
friends around you and a family and resources
to come alongside you in this journey that we call life. God knows
who you are. God knows where you are
and He knows what you need.
Rejoice. Rejoice.
Rejoice that He loves you
and He sent His Son for you
and He's given you His Holy Spirit
as one to empower you and to comfort you
until Jesus comes again.
How do we respond?
First, we respond in rejoicing.
Another translation of that ending of our text
gives us another clue into how to respond.
And Eugene Peterson's The Message says this about Luke 21.
But be on your guard.
Don't let the sharp edge of your expectation get dulled by parties and drinking and shopping.
Otherwise, that day is going to take you by complete surprise, spring on you suddenly like a trap,
for it's going to come on everyone, everywhere at once.
so whatever you do don't go to sleep at the switch pray constantly that you will have the strength
and the wits to make it through everything that's coming and up on your feet before the son of man
so that's number two be on guard be on guard rejoice and be on guard jesus says that parties
and drinking and shopping condole our hopeful looking
to the horizon when Christ will return. That sounds
like the whole month of December, doesn't it? And it's a fun time.
I love December. I love the parties.
I love the celebrations. I love going to hear the Messiah.
I love all these wonderful times of gathering.
I love turkey tamales around Christmas.
at least I think I will
we love those things
but here's the problem
hangovers and anxieties about this life
and too much in excess
of only focusing on the here and now
they can harden us
they can harden us
towards other people
and they can harden us towards God himself
because in all the fun
the frivolity of holidays
and celebrating
You can indulge your appetites to the point of excess.
And you can obsess on your own cares and your problems and your own anxieties.
And you find that your whole life becomes revolved around you.
And you lose the ability to really bless somebody else.
You can't love others when you're living for self.
That's why Jesus says, be on guard.
Don't let these things so capture you.
But you cannot see the other and see God.
It's been said that one of the greatest tragedies of our modern civilization
is that you and I can live a trivial life and get away with it.
Isn't that rich?
My goodness.
Well, would you go see what that's about?
It makes me nervous preaching on judgment, hearing large sounds.
I do hope everybody's okay back there.
One of the greatest tragedies of our modern civilization is that you and I can live a trivial life and get away with it.
That's one of the great dangers of closing ourselves off from others.
We can end up being concerned with only trivial things.
And I want us to live lives that are not trivial, but are full of Jesus and His Spirit and others and expectancy of the coming of our King.
not just living and obsessing and being nervous about the things right around us
but to have that long term bigger perspective
because it's not just about us
we're put here for a mission
and we're here to exalt the living Lord
and to point to his coming at Christmas
and his coming again
what a privilege
what a privilege
you see when you focus on the trivial
when we get so obsessed on our own selves and our little lives.
You cannot worship God.
And that's what life is about, is looking to the horizon and worshiping God.
Who are you living for right now?
Is it self or is it Jesus the Christ?
Does your life have a touch of the trivial?
Does the trivial begin to creep into our lives and take over?
Or is your life built on the rock and solid because it's built on Jesus the Christ?
Number one, rejoice.
Number two, be on guard.
And finally, number three, to seek the Lord.
Jesus is telling us to pray.
He's telling us to have a deep, intimate relationship with him,
that we might have the spiritual resources to handle whatever may come our way
and have the fullness of heart to love and to serve Him
and to love and to serve others.
And so I want to encourage you to spend time each day with the Lord.
And if that's a new experience for you,
I would encourage you this holiday season, from now to Christmas,
make it part of your pattern for life to spend a few moments each day
enjoying the Lord and letting the Scriptures just wash over your soul.
Let Jesus' love permeate you as you spend time soaking him up,
taking him in, and waiting on him.
Let his heart set the pace of your own.
Friends, Santa Claus may be coming to town,
but Jesus is one day coming back to town.
And that's where it's at.
That's the good news.
that's where our horizon is and that's where our eyes and our hearts are focused it's far more
significant than the man in the mall bless his heart it'll be fun to play with those holiday
treats but i want us to keep our eyes expectantly waiting for jesus and may him fill us and
encourage you cast out the trivial and fill your life with his solid rock and his life and his
spirit and may this holiday be unlike anything you've experienced for it would be all about him
and you'll thank the lord each and every day for the privilege of spending your life on earth with
his presence and with him forever in eternity may we keep our eyes and our hearts on jesus the christ
and his return as we enjoy celebrating his birth this christmas and this advent season
and i want to kick that off by taking us right to the table because there's no resurrection
without first some dying there's really no life unless there's first some dying and jesus had to
eye to give us the ability to have life forever and so that little baby came with a purpose
and grew and taught and delivered and healed and prepared the way for him to go to the cross
obediently for us that we might have life forever i love what it says in acts chapter one
It says in verse 11, they said,
Men of Galilee, why are you standing here staring at the sky?
Jesus has been taken away from you into heaven.
And someday, just as you saw him, he will return.
He will return.
Amen.
Praise the Lord for that.
And so this table points again to the reality that he came.
And it's giving us the feast to celebrate his coming again.
And so at Advent, I want this to be a special time of remembering why he came
and the hope that's represented in the cross and the resurrection of Easter.
It may feel too early to deal with Easter, but it's all one story.
It's all together.
And because of his death, we can have Easter.
And so today I want you to reflect on his coming again at the table today
to take on, to take in, so to speak, the bread of life.
That it would give you encouragement now
to point to the day when he comes again
to take you home forever.
That's our joy and that's our hope.
May God speak to you as we take this meal,
this memory tool, this reminder
of such great news that has come
and will come again.
Lord Jesus, thank you
that you have a plan.
That you have a plan
and you have begun to execute that plan that you might redeem and bring home your people
that our sin would not separate us eternally but you found a way to have your wrath and to have us
still alive and with you forever and it was through your son thank you so much and lord i pray that as
we take this meal, take these symbols of Jesus' self-giving for us.
It would again remind us of your love for us and would give us hope,
lift our heads, and help us to look forward to your coming again
when we finally sit down to the final banquet of the Lamb.
In Jesus' name, amen.
