A wonderful testimony. Betty, thank you for blessing me this morning.
I also want to direct your attention to the baptistry here.
We've got another baptism, second service, some junior high students.
I just want to say that we're going through a lot of water around here, and that's a good thing.
We've got about 25 people in the next 30 days or so that are going to be baptized.
So you just look out for it each and every week, and praise the Lord.
God's doing a great work in our midst, and we're proud to share that with you.
We come to Palm Sunday.
Jesus comes into Jerusalem.
His final hours are approaching.
And the people worship Jesus by laying down the palm fronds at his feet.
What will you lay at Jesus' feet in worship this season?
What will you place at his feet as an act of love and adoration?
As Betty already shared, Jesus wants your whole life, your spiritual gifts.
He wants your talents, your time, your possessions, all of it.
How will you worship Him this day and each and every day?
We are in the midst of a campaign, as you have probably gathered by now,
and I want to say again, if you are a guest with us, this is a family matter.
but I trust that the message we share and the word of God that we open today
will also be a blessing to you.
But we want you to feel under absolutely no obligation or pressure
to give to this campaign unless God is speaking to you.
This is Family Matters, but I do believe that God's word is exciting
and will be a blessing for you today.
I want to recap some themes from last week and bring us up to speed if you missed it.
And I want to share from Ecclesiastes this morning, chapter 5, a different passage.
We didn't look at this last week, but I want to share it this morning.
It's really been a blessing to me.
And he writes this, those who love money will never have enough.
How absurd to think that wealth brings true happiness.
The more you have, the more people come to help you spend it.
So what is the advantage of wealth?
Except, perhaps, to watch it run through your fingers.
People who work hard sleep well, whether they eat little or much,
but the rich are always worrying and seldom get a good night's sleep.
There is another serious problem I have seen in the world.
Riches are sometimes hoarded to the harm of the saver,
or they are put into risky investments that turn sour and everything is lost.
In the end, there is nothing left to pass on to one's children.
People who live only for wealth come to the end of their lives as naked and empty-handed
as on the day they were born.
I'm going to share those passages again with a little paraphrase.
And I think you'll see how this text speaks to us so profoundly today.
Verse 10 says,
Those who love money will never have enough.
how absurd to think that wealth brings true happiness. Here's the paraphrase, the more you
have, the more you want. The more you have, the more you want. In addition, the more you have,
the less you're satisfied. It's the same thing put differently. Verse 11, he says, the more you have,
the more people come to help you spend it.
So what is the advantage of wealth
except perhaps to watch it run through your fingers?
We'll paraphrase, the more you have,
the more people will come after it,
including the government.
Everybody wants to help you
take some of that off your shoulders.
The more you have, the more you realize
it does you no good.
Verse 12, people who work hard sleep well.
Whether they eat little or much, but the rich are always worrying and seldom get a good night's sleep.
Friends, the more you have, the more you have to worry about.
And as I shared last week, millionaires never smile.
They're always worrying.
Verse 13, there is another serious problem I have seen in the world.
Riches are sometimes hoarded to the harm of the saver.
The more you have, the more you can hurt yourself by holding on to it.
It's not good for our souls to hold on to things.
Verse 14,
Or they put into risky investments that turn sour, and everything is lost.
In the end, there's nothing left to pass on to one's children.
Friends, the more you have, the more you have to lose.
And finally, verse 15,
People who live only for wealth come to the end of their lives as naked and empty-handed
as on the day they were born.
The more you have, the more you'll simply leave behind.
What Solomon is trying to teach us, the moral he's trying to give to us, is that affluence
doesn't satisfy.
And as we saw last week, affluenza, if you will, is a disease that can rot your soul
if you're not careful.
The antidote, as we talked about, to affluenza
is to give, is to have a heart that gives.
And when you give, your soul is shaped
more like God, who's a God who gives.
I think we can see the need to give regularly.
I think we understand that,
and after passages like this, we can say,
yes, I understand, but we still struggle with doing it.
we struggle with giving to God as an act of worship
because we think that if we have just a little more,
then we'll be satisfied and then we can afford to give to God.
It's like, if I can just get this much more
and buy that first
and put a little more money into this and that,
then we can start thinking about giving to God.
And from that perspective, friends,
we're always giving from our affluence,
from our overflow instead of from our obedience and trust in God and His provision in our lives.
You see, God calls us to give as an act of worship, to give our best, to give Him the first
fruits of what we've received. God knows that when we give those first fruits that we're putting Him
first in our lives. That's why He asks us to do it that way. And then we have to trust God to take
care of the rest. Listen to what Jesus says in Matthew chapter 6. Don't store up treasures
here on earth where they can be eaten by moths and get rusty and where thieves break in and steal.
Store your treasures in heaven where they will never become moth-eaten or rusty and where they
be safe from thieves. Wherever your treasure is, there your heart and thoughts will also be.
No one can serve two masters, for you will hate one and love the other, or be devoted to one and
despise the other. You cannot serve both God and money. So I tell you, don't worry about everyday
life. Whether you have enough food, drink, and clothes, doesn't life consist of more than food
and clothing? Look at the birds. They don't need to plant or harvest or put food in barns because
your heavenly Father feeds them, and you are far more valuable to Him than they are. Can all your
worries add a single moment to your life? Of course not. And why worry about your clothes?
Look at the lilies of the field and how they grow. They don't work or make their clothing,
yet Solomon in all his glory was not dressed as beautifully as they are. And if God cares
so wonderfully for flowers that are here today and gone tomorrow, won't he surely care for you?
You have so little faith.
So don't worry about having enough food or drink or clothing.
Why be like the pagans who are so deeply concerned about these things?
Your heavenly Father already knows all your needs.
And He will give you all you need from day to day
if you live for Him and make the kingdom of God your primary concern.
So don't worry about tomorrow.
For tomorrow will bring its own worries.
Today's trouble is enough for today.
Let me share two points from this passage.
One of my favorites on this whole issue of trust and giving.
God, number one, wants us to do what?
To trust in God's bank.
Trust in the Lord's bank, if you will.
Our banks, our stocks, our mutual funds here on earth,
they produce a variety of rates of return.
Some are going up, some are going down.
And these investments are not always secure.
But we need to invest for our futures, and that's true.
And retirement investing is a good thing.
But amassing a myriad of wealth just to have it is a foolish thing.
Because one thing is certain, no matter how great or poorly your investments did on earth,
you simply cannot take your fortunes with you.
You cannot take them with you.
It all stays here.
You ever been to a junkyard or the dump?
It all stays here, doesn't it?
The latest and greatest stereo system that was out a few years ago is laying there in the pile.
It all stays here.
That beautiful car that you just saved for and dreamed about and looked forward to,
eventually it sits in the junkyard full of rust and they smash it this tall.
It's all going to stay here.
We see those principles at work.
Wealth doesn't ever satisfy.
When you die, you leave it here.
But friends, when you give to God's kingdom,
when you give to God's kingdom,
you get to see it used for His purposes,
for His glory, for His outcomes,
and it gets invested in the heavenly bank for your future.
That's a better investment
than what you can do right here in the bank down the street.
As we saw last week, our possessions, our money, our stuff
is to be used as a tool for ministry, for enlarging the kingdom of God
and investing in your local church, investing in owning the vision
has real returns as the kingdom of God grows here on earth
through Fullerton First Baptist.
And friends, I directly link the lives of these students
that are being changed to your investing in your staff, in your facility,
in praying for these people as they share Jesus in a place that is comfortable
and ministers to our young people and to our medium-aged people
and everybody in between and our old people and all of us.
These lives being changed is because you've invested and prayed and asked God to move.
and you can be proud of being a part of the kingdom of God
as Jesus brings it here in this place and around the world.
And all that money, all that money given,
given to campaigns, given to the staff and the church here,
and all that money given is also storing up treasures in heaven.
It's investing in God's bank for an investment rate of return
that is literally out of this world.
and we can't take it when we leave.
But the following was inscribed on a tombstone
and I think it says volumes.
It says, what I spent, I lost.
What I saved, I left.
But what I gave, I have.
I like that.
What I spent, I lost.
What I saved, I left.
But what I gave, I have in the kingdom forever.
Friends, God wants us to trust in His heavenly bank, and two, He wants us to trust in His provision.
We struggle, I think, to give to God, because deep down we're not sure that God is really going to come through and take care of us.
It's one thing to talk about love and heaven and values and our souls and all of those topics here at church,
but it's another thing to give our money
and let God meet our needs in practical ways.
It's one thing to come and hear
of these kind of otherworldly concepts
but to really trust that he's gonna meet your needs
on a day-by-day basis,
now that's down and dirty.
That's hard because that's where we really live.
And the question is this,
do we really, really trust God?
Do we really trust God?
Matthew 6.33, but seek first His kingdom and His righteousness,
and all these things will be given to you as well.
He's saying all the things that you worry about in food and clothing and shelter,
when you make the kingdom your first priority, God takes care of the rest.
But do we believe it?
Do we really believe this?
Our giving records tell the story.
As we've said, what we believe is accurately reflected in our checkbooks.
What we really believe about God is reflected in how we live our lives and how we trust Him and how we give.
When we're asked to follow God's design for our giving by giving our tithe of 10%, do we really believe this verse?
When asked to follow God's challenge through owning the vision, do we really believe this verse?
With regard to giving, you'll recall that God says to Malachi, test me in this.
It's the only place I can find where God actually says, try me, test me.
And I would say the same.
Try God.
Try God.
Try Him.
Tell me the story when you trust Him and try God.
Come and tell me how He met your needs.
I love those testimonies.
People sometimes pull me aside and say, it doesn't make sense, Pastor.
This doesn't make sense, but I'm going to try it.
I'm going to give my first fruits.
And they come back a few weeks later.
You won't believe what happened.
And I just smile.
I say, try me.
And they share how God provided.
And all I can do is share that and bang on the pulpit and say it over and over.
But friends, you've got to try it to live it.
And I'll just say it until I'm blue in the face.
But you have to try it to really experience it.
Jesus wants us to give.
God says, test me in this.
Try God.
Try God as you tithe.
Try God as you give above and beyond for this campaign
and watch God take care of your needs.
He might even bless you beyond what you can even imagine.
Try Him.
Trust in His provision, not just your own.
Try Him.
I want to close with this story,
another set of tombstones.
Seems to be a theme,
but I think God is asking us to die to ourselves anyway
in this area.
Randy Alcorn, in this great book,
The Treasure Principle,
He shares this story about his trip to Cairo, Egypt, and some friends took the Alcorns down
an alley in Cairo, and they entered this little graveyard for American missionaries in Cairo,
Egypt.
And as he describes, the grass was overgrown, and it was clearly a place that had been forgotten.
And they were encouraged to turn their attention to a scorched tombstone there at their feet,
And it read this, William Borden, 1887 to 1913.
And they learned that William Borden was a graduate of Yale University.
He was an heir to a great fortune, but he rejected that life of ease that easily could have been his.
He rejected a life of living off the fortune in favor of bringing the good news of Jesus Christ to the Muslim world.
In fact, he was so committed to that mission that he refused to even buy himself a car
and instead gave away hundreds of thousands of dollars to missions.
But after only four months of zealous ministry in Egypt,
he contracted spinal meningitis and he died at the age of 25, a young man.
The epitaph on that little sun-scorched tombstone there in the dusty, overgrown graveyard
said this. It said, apart from faith in Christ, there is no explanation for such a life. Did you
catch that? Apart from faith in Christ, there is no explanation for such a life. Shortly after they
stared at that phrase on the tombstone, the Alcorns were then whisked away to the Egyptian
Museum there in Cairo, the National Museum, and they took in another tombstone, if you will,
and there they looked at the riches of King Tutankhamen, known as King Tut. King Tut died
at a young age as well, at 17. He was buried with unimaginable riches, literally tons,
Literally tons of gold.
The Egyptians believed in the afterlife, where you could actually take your treasure with you.
But here's the problem.
Howard Carter found all those accoutrements from the grave, from the tomb,
intact in one piece, sealed up in King Tut's tomb in 1922.
They were never taken beyond that tomb.
Untouched for more than 3,000 years.
Two graves.
One grave was obscure.
One grave was dusty.
One grave was hidden off the back alley of a street littered with garbage.
The other grave was filled with wealth and opulence.
But where are the two now?
The one who lived in opulence exists in a Christless eternity.
And the other who lived a modest life on earth, serving the true king,
is enjoying his everlasting reward forever in the presence of Jesus.
See, Tut's life was tragic because of an awful truth he discovered too late
that you can't take your treasures with you.
He couldn't take them on with him.
The thousands of tons of gold and all that came with it,
he couldn't take it with him.
And William Borden's short life was triumphant
because he sent his treasures on ahead.
Tut hoarded, and it didn't do him any good.
Borden gave it away, and he blessed so many people on earth,
and now it's a blessing for him in heaven as well.
What will you lay at Jesus' feet this Palm Sunday?
Will you trust Jesus as your Lord and your Savior?
Will you trust him to take care of your needs?
And as I've said over and over, it's not necessarily all your wants.
but he promises to take care of your needs.
But I also know that when you trust him with your needs,
that God is there to bless.
You may not get all the things you want,
but he'll enlarge your heart and make it soft
and make it like his heart.
That's a far better thing than just having more stuff.
Will you trust him as the Lord and Savior
to take care of your needs?
And finally, when he asks you to invest
that which is closest to your heart
in His kingdom, will you trust Him? Will you trust Him? Will you obey our Father in heaven?
You have set up a bank there that pays out unimaginable riches, but we are still convinced
sometimes that Quaker Savings and Bank of America is still a better deal. Lord, help us to see an
eternal perspective. Help us to see that You really are there in our lives and really do take
care of us when we stretch and trust You and obey as You called us to. And so, Father, as we prepare
to think about giving of our tithes and offerings and about stretching to pay off our debts here at
our church, that we might liberate more monies down the road for ministry and not for debt
retirement. Father, as we as a family struggle with what we are to give in that, I pray that
these texts would become very real and that we'd really sit in our chair late at night
and quietly just surrender to you, and then we'll trust and we'll obey. And I pray, Father,
that for this congregation, that as they step out in faith, that you would richly bless and meet
them there and take them to new places they couldn't even imagine because they've trusted
and obeyed. So bless Fullerton first in this way, I pray, Father. May we really take these texts to
heart, and may we meet you there at the crossroads, the place of our trust and our struggle. May you
meet us, hold us, sustain us, and pour out your blessing. So, Father, we ask these things humbly,
Looking forward to seeing what you will do.
Continue, Father, to minister to us.
May we minister to you in this holy week.
And may it be a real encouragement for our souls.
Good Friday, Saturday as you were in the ground,
and Sunday when you rose again.
Make that real to us, as real as the day it happened.
And may that enlarge our faith and our trust in you.
So we thank you for this time together as a family.
May the rest of our day be a blessing, we pray in Jesus' name, and amen.
