That there are a lot of deleted words hanging in cyberspace right now, because I was trying repeatedly to be more clever than God, and failing again and again and again.
And through this wrestling, what I came up with was just a simple truth, and that is that I cannot be more profound than the Word of God, that I shouldn't even dare to try to be more profound.
So what I'm giving you today is like the Alpha Course. It's bare bones Bible, bare bones Christianity.
I want to keep things purposefully simple this morning, because I think sometimes in the simplest truths are the most profound truths.
I want to take stock this morning, because that's generally what you do at the end of the calendar year, correct?
you take stock of your life. You ask yourself questions like, what have I accomplished? What
did I lack? Or what did I do really well? Did I love well? Or did I hurt? Or did I inadvertently
overlook my fellow, my brothers and sisters? What have I gained? And the contrary, what have I
lost sight of in 2002. And here's the big one. Here's the question that within it holds all
lesser questions. What is important? What is really non-negotiable? And what that we describe
as important and non-negotiable did I hit or did I miss in 2002? These kind of questions can apply
to an individual's life, like mine or yours.
They can apply to a business. They can apply to a family.
I, for example, have found myself wondering whether or not the
hours that I've pulled at work or at school really were the best
thing for my family in 2002. And actually,
I'm not really wondering about this question anymore because my wife,
the executor of our household, has spoken very clearly on this
matter. That's right. And you can probably guess what her opinion is. And here's the, here's the
clincher. This is what, something you probably knew was coming. How are we, this family of Christ
followers, doing? What kind of stock do we take of ourselves at the end of 2002? Now, don't be afraid.
Don't be nervous about what's coming next.
I do not have any hard and fast assessment of Fullerton First Baptist outlined neatly on page three of my notes, okay?
Nothing like that is coming your way this morning.
Because I don't presume to know that much.
Taking stock of the church, of a family like ours, is a bigger question than one I can answer.
It's bigger than Kirk.
It's bigger than the whole pastoral staff combined, all the boards, the trustees.
In fact, I venture to say that that question is bigger than the weight of every person in this church's opinion.
God alone has a fair idea of how we've done in 2002.
And the best that I think you and I can do is prayerfully ask him to share it with us.
So as I said, this morning is no State of the Union address.
Try not to act too disappointed.
All I have this morning is the same question that we ask ourselves individually at the end of every year.
What is truly important?
What is non-negotiable in the life of Fullerton First Baptist Church?
Here's a hint.
It's not well-manicured programming for 2003.
It's a command from our boss, from the Lord Jesus himself
He says it, he says a new command I give you
Love one another, as I have loved you
So you must love one another, by this everyone will know
That you are my disciples, if you love
One another, I think it's kind of sad how a statement like this
Which is so simple and so profound gets buried in our culture
by a thousand clichés and bad love songs.
I mean, for those of you who have seen Moulin Rouge!
and those of you who haven't,
and by the way, I recommend that you see Moulin Rouge!
You know the litany of clichés.
Love is like oxygen.
Love is a many-splendored thing.
Love lifts us up where we belong.
All you need is love.
What the world needs now is love, sweet love.
It's the only thing that the world has just too little of.
Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
We misuse this word so much.
We trivialize it so much.
It gets so small that we forget how profound this simple four-letter word is.
Let's recapture it.
Here's love once again in the words of the Master.
My command is this.
Love each other as I, I, the Lord Jesus Christ, have loved you.
Greater love has no man than this, that he lay down his life for his friends.
If you are my friends, do what I command.
This is my command.
Love each other.
You see, love is not a cliche.
Love is not a mushy fluff of sentimentality.
It's not a song lyric.
It's not, you know, a hormone imbalance.
Love, in Christ's eyes, is an absolute necessity.
It's a command.
It's one of those non-negotiables that come too easily to us every New Year's Day when we make our resolutions.
Love is Christ's non-negotiable.
See, in its pure form, love is a state of complete self-giving.
It's literally to die for the object of your love.
See, when people describe feelings of being in love,
they attach it to how that other person makes them feel.
Usually, how that other person makes them feel about themselves.
They feel exhilarated, they feel flushed, they feel proud, they feel ten feet tall.
Pick one.
And there's nothing wrong or even cheap about this kind of romantic love.
The kind of love that gets popularized in our society, however,
is not primarily what Jesus Christ is talking about.
Love in Christ's terms doesn't mean what another person does for you.
Love in Christ's terms means what you are prepared to do
for that other person that you say you love.
And neither is love some kind of hippy-trippy idealism,
you know, where people gather around a campfire and play a guitar
and share intense, warm feelings.
about one another. If love has intensity, it is intense concern for another expressed in actions,
not song, not words, or let not song and words alone. I said earlier that the most important
thing in the life of our church, of any church, of any family, was not well-manicured programming
for 2003. Perhaps what I should have said is this, the most important thing in the life of our church
is evidence of our intense love in action.
In other words, if it's for love's sake,
for the love of people of this community, for example,
the love of people outside this family of faith,
that we plan and we labor and we dream about programming in 2003,
then our motivations are right.
Then our motivations are love.
And chances are, if our motivations are right,
then our programs born out of that motivation are also right.
I think of kids' play.
I mentioned this earlier during the announcements.
Kids' play is an intense labor of love.
But see, the love wasn't for the planning itself.
Maybe some people enjoyed it.
I personally wouldn't.
And love wasn't for the sport of basketball itself,
though some people enjoy that too.
The labor of love of a program like kids' play
comes from a deeper sort of self-sacrificing desire to see children and through these children
their families be exposed to the sacrificial love of Christ and that love gets expressed
not through the program of kids play primarily but through the program of our hearts through us
you see above and beyond programming my friends and worship and preaching and all the labors of
love that take place here on a week-in, week-out basis is the matter of our character as a people
of Christ. An author, Donald, I can never say this word right, Potersky, puts it this way,
the world needs to see what the Christian life looks like. People who think God is unnecessary
or just optional in life need fresh images of how life is meant to be lived. They need hard
evidence that following Jesus really makes a difference. In order
to engage in today's world with a credible
Christianity, contemporary followers of Jesus
need to be strategic, injecting fresh meaning into
an old gospel will not be achieved by
buying more primetime television slots or by handing out
colored tracks. Rather, the gospel will be perceived as
a feasible alternative when those who do not know God have some positive personal experiences
with people who do know him. And that's the bottom line, isn't it? That's the good news
and the bad news all wrapped into one. We are, all of us, the ones that draw or repel
people from Christ inside this church, outside this church. It's us. It's been said that
the greatest single cause of atheism in the world today is Christians who honor Jesus with their
lips, but then walk out the door and do not honor him with their lifestyle. That is what an
unbelieving world simply finds unbelievable. The Bible says it even better, as usual. Paul, the
author of what we, you know, of the New Testament, of most of the New Testament rather, writes about
the non-negotiable character of love in his famous love chapter, the one that we use at weddings
all the time? I'll read it. And now I will show you
the most excellent way. If I speak in the tongue of men and angels
but have not love, I'm only a resounding gong or
a clanging cymbal. If I have the gift of prophecy and can
fathom all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have
faith that can move mountains but have not love, I'm nothing.
If I give all I possess to the poor and surrender my body
to the flames, but have not love, I've gained nothing. Love is patient. Love is kind. It does
not envy. It does not boast. It is not proud. It is not rude. It is not self-seeking. It is not
easily angered. It keeps no record of wrongs. Love does not delight in evil, but always rejoices with
the truth it always protects it always trusts it always hopes it always perseveres love never fails
but where there are prophecies they'll cease and where there are tongues they'll be stilled where
there is knowledge it will pass away for we know in part and we prophesy in part but when perfection
comes. The imperfect disappears.
When I was a child, I talked like a child. I thought like a child. I
reasoned like a child. But when I became a man,
I put childish ways behind me. Now we
see but a poor reflection as in a mirror. Then we shall see
face to face. Now I know in part.
Then I shall know fully, even as I am fully known.
And now these three remain, faith, hope, and love.
But the greatest of these is love.
You see, these verses, they hold the non-negotiable that is our focus this morning.
We can program and we can plan and we can spend and we can spruce up this facility,
which we have, by the way, until it fairly shines with spit and polish and professionalism.
You can listen to the finest music coming from this stage.
You can learn from the most inspirational and well-crafted sermons.
We can have great video.
We can have great audio.
We can have graphics and lights.
And all that stuff can hit new professional heights.
And it probably will in this next year.
But it doesn't amount to much if our character, if our love doesn't match up with the program.
with the message. It doesn't matter how polished we make it.
You might paraphrase verses 1 through 3 in 1 Corinthians
chapter 13 like this. If our sermons bring down
the house every Sunday morning, and we have no love for those that need to
hear this solid teaching for perhaps the first time,
then we're preaching to the choir. If we play and sing
like the New York Philharmonic, if our visuals give Madison Avenue
will run for its money, and the best we can do is congratulate ourselves on our musical or our
aesthetic or our technical slickness, then we've really accomplished nothing. If we pack this place
to the gills with looky-loos and people looking only for the big show, if we're the hottest
Christian ticket in Fullerton, California, but our lives are not filled with God's love, the kind of
love that could take or leave all that stuff, then we'll attract fellow spectators to this place.
But we won't see God change many lives in our midst, because if we don't have love, our own
lives aren't changed much, and the world at large will see it. They'll know it. Sunday morning matters,
absolutely. The worship matters, absolutely. The sermon should always be thoughtful and heartfelt,
but when is Kirk not thoughtful or heartfelt?
The worship should be inspirational.
But I'll say it again.
If our hopes are pinned on musical spectacles
or the celebrity in the pulpit
and we're relying on that to make a difference,
to transfigure Fullerton First Baptist,
then we're being naive and our priorities are skewed.
I don't think that's the case this morning.
Among all of you, I've found intense love.
It's the reason I came. It's the reason my family has stayed.
And I guess I say all of this to encourage you,
whether or not you're part of what goes on up here,
your character matters.
Someone will come to hear great worship.
Someone will come to be taught and inspired.
Someone will stay because of you.
Because the most lasting reason for a person to want God
and to find God in our midst,
to become a part of this family, this body of believers,
is the character and love exhibited by you.
By all of us, I should say.
And that's inside this place, and that is outside this place.
I'm going to put it really simply.
Really simply.
We are the message.
I guess all of this amounts really to just a kind of a long thank you this morning.
2002 has been a year of incredible building, incredible sacrifice,
and I think through it all, one of just incredible affection shown one to another.
And that is where our hope should lie.
People will see your warmth.
People will see your love, your self-sacrificing love,
and in that, they will see a little glimpse of Christ's love for them.
Jesus said it, greater love has no one.
than the person who lays down his life for his friends.
Jesus laid down his life for us.
And people's first glimpse of that
is not going to be some philosophical treatise.
It's going to be you, in your school, in your work,
in your home, in the shopping center.
That's where my hope is for 2003.
In you. Pray with me.
Father God, we as a church commit once again in 2003
to be evidence of you we don't ask for anything than what you've already given us
all we ask is that you show us continually how to be faithful to who you are father god our hope
is in your character reflected in our lives show us the way god amen and as we close
to sing i serve a risen savior he's in the world today because i know he's living
