I bring you greetings from the University Baptist Church in Palm Desert, one of our
sister churches, and a few of them walked up, and now their name escapes me. I wrote
it down, but they've said, oh, is such and such still there? And they bring greetings
to you, so I'm just excited to be worshiping with them, and they're excited for what God
is doing here, so greetings from the Palm Desert Church.
Well, as we finish or come close to the end of our series, I'd like to share from the
book, The Healing of Memories, David Siemens tells an interesting story about the reality
at the end of World War II. The Japanese government at that time faced a massive problem
because even though the peace documents had been signed, there were thousands of Japanese soldiers
in the mountains and the jungles in the Pacific that didn't know the war was over. How do you
bring them all back in? How do you teach them that we're done? In fact, not only was it difficult
because they didn't know the war was over, they were brainwashed into thinking that if they
surrendered to the American troops, horrible, horrible things would be done unto them. And so
they remained hidden, hiding in the caves in the jungles. Well, the emperor made a speech explaining
the situation and pleading to the men to come home, and it was broadcast by radio, and it
was recorded, and they played it on recording devices and boomed it out into the jungles.
In essence, it's all right.
And because it came in the voice of the emperor, it began to work.
As they heard the trusted voice, they began to come out.
It took a while.
There were stragglers.
It took a few months, but they got all of them out, they thought.
But there was one.
There was one who stayed hidden until 1974.
29 years after the war was over, he finally came out of hiding.
Japan and the United States of America had been rebuilding the relationship
and forging economic ties and moving on with life.
But one man gave up 29 years of his life in hiding.
When they asked him why he waited, he said it was because he was afraid.
He was afraid.
Trapped by 29 years of fear, not by an invading army, but by fear.
Friends, we can be hidden and trapped by fear ourselves.
We can completely miss out on life because of fear.
We can miss out on what God would have for us because of fear.
Like the couple in today's drama, we can get locked into patterns and cycles of living
that would keep us in a comfort zone
that holds us back from really living
and accomplishing what God would have for us.
They got stuck by the comfort of a couch.
The Houston Chronicle in the early part of the 90s
carried a story about a jilted English bride
from Reading, England.
This was an amazing story to me.
I almost didn't believe it,
but the source was right
and she lived in her garden for 35 years after being abandoned by her fiancé at the altar.
It's a tragic story.
She refused to go back into her home.
And so she began to build a shelter in her garden from trees and twigs and brightly colored umbrellas
and furnished it with car seats and briefcases.
She left that house exactly as it was on the day she was to be married.
And she died at the age of 70, 35 years living in the garden.
A pastor commented, and I quote,
She lived and died in a comfort zone designed to protect her from her emotional pain.
She had gotten stuck on a mistake and was not able to move beyond it.
Her homemade hovel didn't look like much of a comfort zone,
but that's the way comfort zones are.
To the owner, it looks wonderful,
but to the outside observer,
our comfort zones may not look so great.
We get comfortable with things
that ought not to feel comfortable,
and Jesus calls us out of those comfort zones.
He calls us to change.
You cannot move out of your comfort zones unless you're willing to make mistakes and learn to move beyond them.
Comfort zones are comfortable, aren't they?
We do life in predictable ways.
We do relationships in safe manners.
We do ministry in safe, predictable ways.
Let's be honest, we sit every Sunday in the same places, most of you.
I was even tempted to stand up and actually shuffle you all around.
I won't do that this morning.
But wouldn't that be interesting, to look at it from a different point of view?
Sometimes patterns can be the biggest obstacles to fulfilling God-given dreams.
When I was brand new around here, first few weeks, someone actually said to me,
we want you, pastor, to lead us and grow us, but don't make any changes to the church or the service
because we like it the way it is.
Lead us, but don't touch anything.
It's a true story.
But friends, healthy churches, however,
are always changing and growing and facing new challenges.
And healthy churches are filled with healthy believers
who live to do God's will,
even if that means growing personally
and stretching our comfort zones
or stepping out of them altogether.
Which one are you?
Are you ready to take risks with God?
or do you like life just as it is?
And would you like to be in that first category that I listed
of one who's ready to take risks with God?
We've been talking about daring to dream again
and overcoming barriers that would hold us back.
And one of the barriers that can hold us back from dreaming
and pursuing God's dreams for us
is our reluctance to leave our comfort zones.
We just like things the way they are.
And we can let God go right on by.
If you are in a relationship with God this morning,
chances are that He is prodding you to grow and to change in some area of your life.
I don't know what that is necessarily,
but chances are he's speaking and pushing and growing and wanting to stretch you.
That's a major part of our journey with God.
And as we've been talking about over the last several weeks,
God is leading many of you to dream again and to pursue those dreams for God.
I'd like for you to consider a young woman that presents a dream to her.
We usually look at her at Christmas.
But her story fits in August as well.
So I take you this morning to Luke chapter 1.
In the sixth month of Elizabeth's pregnancy, God sent the angel Gabriel to Nazareth,
a village in Galilee, to a virgin named Mary.
She was engaged to be married to a man named Joseph, a descendant of King David.
And Gabriel appeared to her and said,
Greetings, favored woman, the Lord is with you.
Confused and disturbed, Mary tried to think what the angel could mean.
Don't be frightened, Mary, the angel told her, for God has decided to bless you.
You will become pregnant and have a son, and you are to name him Jesus.
He will be very great and will be called the Son of the Most High,
and the Lord will give him the throne of his ancestor David
and he will reign over Israel forever.
His kingdom will never end.
Mary asked the angel,
But how can I have a baby? I am a virgin.
And the angel replied,
The Holy Spirit will come upon you
and the power of the Most High will overshadow you.
So the baby born to you will be holy
and will be called the Son of God.
What's more, your relative Elizabeth has become pregnant in her old age.
People used to say she was barren, but she's already in her sixth month,
for nothing is impossible with God.
And Mary responded, I am the Lord's servant,
and I am willing to accept whatever he wants.
May everything you have said come true.
And then the angel left.
Mary, roughly 15 years old,
a young woman living in a male-dominated culture in a small town,
engaged to a man named Joseph.
God was calling this teenager to be the mother of Jesus,
the Savior of the world.
And not only that, she would be a mother before she was ever with her husband.
Scandal. Ridicule.
it wasn't going to be an easy road for Mary.
Mary's dream, this reality that God was speaking to her
would involve some risk.
In order to see God's dream fulfilled
she would just have to get over her fear and discomfort
and if I can use the words of Nike, just do it.
She would have to just do it.
God calls you to a new dream,
a new adventure with Him, a new ministry we can learn from Mary.
You see, the call to just do it, number one, comes from someone who loves us.
Someone who loves us.
When God calls you to dream big dreams and challenges you to grow,
He's coming as one who loves us and is for us.
Do you realize God is for you?
He wants you to grow.
He wants you to be the best.
He is on your side.
He is for you.
Notice how he came to Mary through the angel.
Greetings, favored woman.
The Lord is with you.
Don't be frightened, Mary,
for God has decided to bless you.
God might be calling Mary to a big dream,
a big commitment, a life-changing experience,
but he's going to do it, notice,
with His blessing and His presence.
He's not sticking her out there all alone,
but with His blessing and presence together.
The one who calls us, friends,
outside of our comfort zones
to dream His dreams
and to accomplish the things He has for us.
He loves us and is with us.
Presence and blessing.
Do you believe it, church?
We can hear it, but do we believe it, church?
I hope so.
Number two, the call to just do it comes for a noble purpose.
When the angel appeared to Mary, the plan was being put into action.
And Jesus, her son, would be called great and would be called the Son of the Most High.
Mary was being drawn into this divine drama where God is working in history to bring about his conclusion.
And that conclusion involves sending Jesus to provide for our salvation.
That conclusion involves our participation in growing the kingdom of God with our spiritual gifts.
God wants to use you to build the kingdom of God.
And he puts big dreams in our heads sometimes to accomplish those purposes.
God is not asking you to risk for the risk itself.
For the sake of risk, He's not asking you to do it to impress Him or to impress others.
He's asking you to just do it because He's calling you to a divine purpose,
for a noble purpose, for a higher calling.
Mary was called to bear the Son of God.
Mary was called to endure the ridicule of a pregnancy before she was married.
Mary was called to raise the child prodigy known as Jesus.
Mary was called to witness the bloody death of her son on the cross.
But she was called for a noble purpose.
She was called to dreams larger than her own.
She was called out of her comfort zone of staying in this small town of Nazareth in Galilee
for a larger purpose for the kingdom of God.
Noble purpose.
How do you know God's dreams for your own life?
And I like what theologian Frederick Buechner said.
He said, God's call to our lives is at the place where my gifts intersect with the needs of humanity.
where God can use you to meet needs
and build the kingdom of God.
You see, God's dream for us
always involves serving the kingdom and others.
When you come back next Sunday night,
when you come and we celebrate the Lord
in worship and in communion,
when you see those baptisms that night,
when you see the representation of lives changed,
you will say to yourself,
whatever we're doing for the kingdom of God,
It is so worth it to see these lives changed.
Lives in this very room are changed because many of you have dreamed dreams
and gone and stretched outside of yourselves,
and others have found Jesus Christ because of what you have done.
He calls us to higher purposes, for noble purpose,
to develop and grow the kingdom of God.
There's nothing like it anywhere in the world.
And there's nothing like stepping out of the comfort zone
and having God catch you and meet you there.
He calls us to a higher purpose.
Number three, God calls us just to do it, and it requires a response.
When God gets a hold of our lives, we have to respond.
A friend of mine once remarked offhandedly, and I made a mental note all these years,
she said, you know, God is like a holy disruption in our lives.
Isn't that true?
He's a holy disruption.
You're planning your life and things are going safe and secure and then God intersects and
things get a little out of control because you're out of your zone, but it's the only
way to live.
When the angel spoke to Mary, she had to do something.
She had to respond.
She had to trust God.
She had to leave her comfort zone, let God use her to change the world.
Max Dupree, one of my favorite authors, says in this book, Leading Without Power,
he says, by avoiding risk, we really risk what's most important in life,
reaching toward growth, our potential, and a true contribution towards the common good.
By averting risk, we avoid those great challenges.
Friends, if you sense God calling you to a dream, don't back away.
Don't resolve yourself to flee
because it's too far out of your zone.
Submit to God
and let Him take you on that journey forward.
Wherever it leads,
let Him do it.
I was blessed by this excerpt out of this book
called Unlearning Church by Michael Slaughter,
pastor of the amazing Ginghamsburg Church
back in Tip City, Ohio.
He writes this.
He says,
spiritual life is beyond logical belief. It's an intuitive relationship. The Holy Spirit will come
upon you, the angel told Mary, the mother of Jesus from Luke 135. And then he writes, I don't
understand that. The power of the Most High will overshadow you, the angel continued. Boy, it's not
about understanding. It's not about believing. It's an intuitive relationship. And then he says,
C.S. Lewis was an atheist who taught at Oxford and Cambridge,
and he found a relationship with Christ through his friend, J.R. Tolkien.
And then Lewis went on to write a series of books called The Chronicles of Narnia.
Many of you perhaps have read those or re-read them many times.
In these fairy tales, Lewis tries to explain what it would look like if God entered the world.
In his story, Jesus is a lion by the name of Aslan who comes to this mythical land of Narnia.
And in the second book of the series, he writes, The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe,
four children from England magically enter Narnia.
And they first hear about Aslan from Mr. and Mrs. Beaver.
And they were frightened to learn that Aslan was a lion.
And they asked if he was tame.
They were frightened to learn that he was a lion.
And they asked if he was tame.
the character susan said i shall feel rather nervous about meeting a lion oh that you will
dearie and make no mistake said mrs beaver if there's anyone who can appear before aslan
without their knees knocking they're either braver than most or else just silly and he isn't safe
said lucy safe said mr beaver don't you hear what mrs beaver tells you of course he isn't safe
but he's good he's the king and then slaughter writes this too many christians today are dull
and sleepy because we've made jesus the lion of judah safe predictable logical lions aren't tame
we think that we will know what's going to happen next but you can't pin jesus down he says he's not
predictable, nor will churches be predictable as they follow Jesus. Just when our people at
Ginghamsburg think things are becoming predictable, God throws us a curve, but He does it for a reason.
You can't know what's going to happen next because following Jesus is not about God talk,
it's about God breath. The God talker depends on safe, predictable outcomes. The God breather
expects surprise endings. The God talker is controlled by guidelines. The God breather
lives by a relationship and not by rules. The God talker likes to know what to expect.
God breathers know they must stay in touch with the Holy Spirit to know the real deal.
God-talkers need plans and structure.
The God-breather is fluid and spontaneous.
And then he concludes with by this,
lives turned inside out.
The emerging church is for people who want their lives
turned inside out by the living God.
Are you ready to be a God-breather?
Not just a God-talker that talks about God,
but one that breathes in the living Holy Spirit that allows Him to fill your life
and to give you boldness to step out and go where Jesus goes,
grab onto His cloak, as we've said, and follow Him anywhere.
Following Jesus is not safe, but it's good.
It's not safe, but it is good.
It's not safe because you may have to risk.
You may have to live outside of your comfort zone,
but it's the only kind of life to live in touch with the Most High God,
having Him lead and direct your life.
Here's a challenging question that bothers me all the time.
What would you do for God if there was no chance of failure?
What would you do for God if guaranteed success?
That's probably what He's calling you to do,
even though there is a risk of failure.
But can we just do it?
Can we just do it?
We won't always succeed at everything.
We're not perfect.
But in failing, we still learn.
And when we learn, we get better for the next time.
Just do it.
Just do it.
Whatever he's calling you to do, just do it.
Don't let years go by like that prisoner in his own mind on a jungle somewhere in the South Pacific,
wasting his life away out of fear.
Friends, just do it.
Go where God is calling you to go.
Teddy Roosevelt even said,
far better it is to dare mighty things,
to win glorious triumphs,
even though checkered by failure,
than to take rank with those poor spirits
who neither enjoy nor suffer much
because they live in the gray twilight
that knows neither victory nor defeat.
Great things sometimes come at costs.
The things that can give us great joy also can give us great pain.
But don't just live in that gray zone where neither victory nor defeat,
neither joy nor sorrow, where things are just safe.
It's no way to live.
What comfort zones do we need to escape from
to accomplish what God wants to do in your life?
Is money a comfort zone?
Got to just maintain a certain balance
to keep everything in equilibrium.
Are safe relationships a comfort zone?
You have your friends, you don't want to meet anybody else.
I've got my circle around me, I'm done.
Perhaps you're holding back in your current relationships
from really growing through some difficult issues
that God wants to expand you and expand your heart.
But the risk of confronting that person that hurt you or wounded you,
no, that's too much.
I'd rather just sit on the other side of the church for the next 29 years and ignore it.
I know I'll call the pastor.
We'll talk about it for years.
I'm not joking.
You see what I'm saying?
Can you just do it and finally go up to whoever it is, whatever needs to happen, in your family, in the church, wherever,
and step out of the zone and say, we need to risk and resolve and move on and get healthy and get on with life?
Are you holding back?
maybe you don't want to use your spiritual gift because you know it's going to put you outside of
a zone you want to be in. I've talked to some of you and you don't like your spiritual gift because
it's not comfortable and you're just deciding whether or not to really use what God has called
you to do. You might have to learn to use it. You might have to exercise it. You might even fail once
or twice on the way to victory. One of the books I've been reading says, you know, you need to find
out if you have a certain gift, try it 50 times, and then if you still fail after 50, you might not
have it. We tend to stop after once, right? Oh, didn't work. I'm done. Thank you, God. No thanks.
I'm out of here. No, keep at it. 50 times a failure, then you can decide, I don't have the gift.
But if God is giving you the gift and is calling you to something, are you holding back because
you're afraid to fail in the eyes of somebody else? So what? We're human. We all make mistakes.
That's what the body of Christ is for,
to encourage each other and pick each other up
and send us back in.
You see what I'm saying?
Friends, you stay in our comfort zones.
It holds you back from life, from growth,
from new places, new heights.
It also might be holding back the kingdom of God.
People might not hear the gospel
because you didn't pick up your gift and run with it.
And that's heavy.
And I've got to ask myself,
am I using the gifts he's given me to their fullest?
am I holding back? Because am I holding back the kingdom in some way? And I don't want to stand
before God and have Jesus say, you did this with these, but what happened with this? I had a big
plan for you, and I had a whole bunch of people I wanted you to minister to, but you were afraid.
I sent the Spirit. I gave you the Bible. I gave you mentors. I gave you the church.
I gave you all kinds of resources, and you held back.
I don't want that job performance review, and I don't think any of us does.
And so sometimes you have to let a pastor come along and just encourage you
and sort of kick us out of the nest.
Friends, can we not just do it and trust him and see where he takes us?
Because the good news is this.
When you step out of your comfort zones, Christ is there to meet us.
When Peter got out of the boat to walk on water with Jesus,
Jesus was there to hold him up.
We tend to focus on the fact that eventually he failed,
got his eyes off Jesus, and finally sunk under the water.
I still think it's amazing he's the only other guy that walked on water.
That's guts.
And yeah, he choked, don't we all?
But he got out there, and he trusted, and he went for it.
And I'm inspired by that.
Take hold of Jesus' hand.
Let him lead you, pray hard, and just do it.
Let's pray.
Father, may we live spiritual lives like the athletes do in our culture,
with wild abandon, without fear, focused on the prize, on the goal,
and being coached by you and by your people.
So, Lord, I pray that whatever was said this morning that would speak to our people,
may you just grow that and multiply that,
and the dross, I pray you just push
away. Help us as your
church to be all that
you call us to be and to live our lives
with the kind of zest
that you designed your
people to have. May we stretch
with our gifts and we
stretch in our relationships
and we stretch
in our understanding and love
for you. And so, Lord,
we look forward to seeing what you'll do with Fullerton First
as we step out. Help us
dream again and rise up
and believe what you're doing
in our midst. We pray all
of it in Jesus' name. Amen.
