Saying this little phrase, he always says, the only one who likes change is a wet baby. And it's true, isn't it? Change is hard, but change is one of those things that we can count on in life. It is a constant in the world, and that is that things change.
Professor and author Leonard Sweet wrote this.
He said, I fully expect to wake up to an entirely different world
than the one that I went to bed in the night before.
He says, more changes now occur in one decade
than occurred in entire centuries in the past.
We see that, don't we?
How many of you realize you went to bed last night
and the war was in one direction
and this morning they captured Saddam Hussein, just like that.
Things can happen and turn on a dime.
Life changes, doesn't it?
Change is a constant in our world.
We've seen a lot of changes this past year right here in our own church.
A new governance document, new staff, new ministries.
We welcome new members in our church.
We say goodbye to others as they went home to be with Jesus.
I read once that a church is not a static institution, but it is a living organism,
and that it's always in flux.
As each new person comes, or each new person leaves, we are constantly a different group
of people, and in that sense, we have to, in essence, rejoin the church more or less
every week, because we're never really the same.
It's always changing.
Many of you don't recognize your world today.
It's not the same one that you grew up in.
And I share that sentiment as well.
As I travel to the high schools and the colleges and the seminaries and things as part of my own ministry,
I realize how quickly that I have changed and things have changed even since I was there and it wasn't that long ago.
Things are different.
I don't know the language.
I don't know the phrases.
I don't know what's in or out.
And change can overwhelm us.
There can be a lot of challenges and change that can leave us breathless.
And the reason I describe these realities is that this kinds of change and chaos and
difficulty we might face in our world today is very similar to the kind of a world that
Mary and Joseph experienced as well, for they too found themselves in a changing and a flux
environment. Their country was under military occupation by the Roman Empire. Lots of uncertainty
and concern amongst friends and family and countrymen. Politically, economically, it was not
the most stable time. The Hebrew people had no control over their own future. There was no
certainty about what was to come, no stability upon which to rely. And it doesn't say it in the
text, but I suspect that tragedy and illness and death and financial worries, the kinds of things
that we live with today, were also a part of their world as well. And I think that Mary and Joseph
may have felt the same way we do today,
a little uneasy, a little unsure, a little out of control,
perhaps a little overwhelmed at all the things in their world.
But then there was an unusual meeting.
In the sixth month of Elizabeth's pregnancy,
God sent the angel Gabriel to Nazareth,
a village in Galilee to a virgin named Mary.
She was engaged to be married to a man named Joseph,
a descendant of King David.
Gabriel appeared to her and said,
Greetings, favored woman.
The Lord is with you.
Confused and disturbed,
Mary tried to think what the angel could mean.
Don't be frightened, Mary, the angel told her,
for God has decided to bless you.
You will become pregnant and have a son,
and you are to name him Jesus.
He will be very great and will be called the Son of the Most High,
and the Lord God will give him the throne of his ancestor David,
and he will reign over Israel forever.
His kingdom will never end.
Mary asked the angel,
But how can I have a baby? I'm a virgin.
The angel replied,
The Holy Spirit will come upon you,
and the power of the Most High will overshadow you,
so the baby born to you will be holy,
and will be called the Son of God.
What's more, your relative Elizabeth has become pregnant in her old age.
People used to say she was barren, but she is already in the sixth month,
for nothing is impossible with God.
And Mary responded, I am the Lord's servant,
and I am willing to accept whatever he wants.
May everything you have said come true.
And then the angel left.
A few days later, Mary hurried to the hill country of Judea, to the town where Zechariah
lived.
She entered the house and greeted Elizabeth, and at the sound of Mary's greeting, Elizabeth's
child leaped within her, and Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit.
Elizabeth gave a glad cry and exclaimed to Mary, you are blessed by God above all other
women, and your child is blessed.
What an honor this is that the mother of my Lord should visit me.
When you came in and greeted me, my baby jumped for joy the instant I heard your voice.
You are blessed because you believe that the Lord would do what he said.
I'd like for us now to step back and enter this world for a few moments.
We read of the angel Gabriel who made a visit to this backwater town called Nazareth
in the countryside of Galilee.
It's not the kind of place
where kings are supposed to come from.
This is not the kind of place
where the God of the universe
is supposed to do His work.
Maybe we can learn something
about the humility of this scene.
Perhaps God has a heart
for doing the unexpected,
for loving the unlovely,
for frequenting the lowly places there
In this less than glamorous town, the angel of God visited a girl, a young teenage girl, Mary, engaged to a carpenter named Joseph.
He came to bring her a message.
Let's think about Mary for just a moment.
Think back to when you were 15.
Can you go back that far?
What were you doing at 15?
Some of you have children here about 15.
Some of you have grandchildren here, about 15.
It's an awkward time, isn't it?
15.
Your body is somewhere between childhood and adulthood.
Hormones are doing all kinds of crazy things to your body.
And there's this desire to grow up.
And at 15, not old enough to drive quite yet.
Can't vote, can't stay out late, can't quite live on your own.
A lot of things you're not allowed to do.
15.
15.
Think about what you're interested in at 15.
And then imagine you hear a disturbance in the living room.
You get up and you go downstairs, and there in your living room is this beautiful, supernatural, terrifying, angelic presence,
radiating light and glory throughout your living room.
And he speaks these words to you.
Mary, you have nothing to fear.
God has a surprise for you.
You will become pregnant and give birth to a son
and call his name Jesus.
That is a surprise.
That to me is one of those wonderful understatements in Scripture.
I've got a surprise for you.
You're going to become pregnant and you've never been with a man.
Your whole life's going to change.
Surprise!
What's amazing to me is not only this holy moment,
but Mary's response, her response reveals her character. For her to say, I am the Lord's servant
and I am willing to accept whatever he wants, that is no small statement. And though she is young,
she is a very special, mature young lady because her entire life is about to change.
Nothing will be the same for her.
A few words from the angel, a few words from Mary's lips,
and her world is never the same.
We'll change it forever.
And friends, because of these words, our world changes forever.
Because of this scene.
Do you think Mary, perhaps, was afraid of what was going to happen?
I do.
I think she bravely said, yes, Lord, whatever might come.
But I think in her humanity, deep down, there's a pile of fears that might have been running through her head.
Could be a fear of criticism.
What is everybody going to think?
This is a small town.
This is small town life.
Mary's pregnant, you hear?
Oh my gosh, how did that happen?
They're not even married yet.
Can you imagine living with that in a small town 2,000 years ago?
Perhaps a fear of the supernatural.
What is going to happen to me?
What do you mean the Holy Spirit is going to overshadow me?
Perhaps she felt inadequate.
How in the world am I going to handle this?
Perhaps she was afraid of the changes she could see in her life.
What will happen to my life?
What's going to happen next?
I bring up those fears that Mary has
because you know they apply to us as well.
Those are the same fears that we can have
as we sit here on the eve of the next year.
We sit here on the cusp of the 2004
and friends, God wants to be a part of your life
and to use you and do amazing things through you
but you may be sitting here feeling the same thing.
Fear of criticism, fear of the supernatural,
fear of being inadequate, fear of change.
What would people think?
What would people think if I really committed to Jesus?
They might think I'm a Jesus freak or something.
Hallelujah.
I like that.
Because in our world, religion is a good thing in little pieces, at home, private.
Heaven forbid you would actually live it out voraciously in your life.
That would make you radical.
And we don't want to be radical.
We want to be respectable.
What would people think if I really lived my life on the edge of faith?
What could I really do for the Lord?
And yes, how is this going to change my life?
Because living on the edge with Jesus will change your life.
That's a guarantee.
And I have no idea what it will look like.
And neither do you.
but that's where life was meant to be lived.
As that illustration we've talked about,
it's grabbing onto the coattails of Jesus
and just holding on as he takes you on a journey
you could never imagine.
That's where life gets really interesting.
Some have called it the purpose-driven life,
a life where God's purpose is alive in you
as you hold onto him, as he takes you where he wants.
Can you imagine living that kind of life?
Are you ready to live that kind of life?
If the Bible says, don't be afraid, the angel said to Mary, in fact, he's saying to us,
don't be afraid, I want to do some things with you if you'll let me.
And remember this, nothing is impossible with God.
It's one thing to read it, it's another thing to live it.
Nothing is impossible with God.
If he wants to do something in your life, will you trust him to do it and surrender to him?
for nothing is impossible with God.
Mary trusts God.
She trusts God in the face of difficulty.
She trusts God in the face of perilous
and an uncertain future.
She trusts God in the face of challenges
and changes.
Church, can we hear that today?
Can you hear deep in your soul
that nothing is impossible with God?
If God is calling you to something new,
he will empower you to do it.
If God wants to change something in your life,
he will give you the resources to do it.
If God has you facing some real challenges and difficulties,
he is with you, for nothing is impossible with God.
Amen?
Can we hear this today?
And if we hear it, will we be obedient unto God?
Mary says, okay, let's go.
Be it as you may.
She chooses obedience and trust over disobedience and fear.
She could have let her fears overtake her.
She could have chosen to ignore what the angel said and say, I'm not involved in this.
I don't do the supernatural thing.
I like my wedding coming up.
I like it just the way it is.
No thank you.
She chose to trust and be obedient.
She chose to embrace what God was up to, even if it's personally uncomfortable for her,
because she wants God's purposes more than her own.
And she believes with God that all things are possible.
And notice, as the text continues, not only does she become pregnant,
but an old barren woman, her relative Elizabeth, can suddenly bear a child as well.
and God is about to enter into human history as a child.
Nothing is impossible with God.
And later through Jesus' life,
we're going to see that from a tomb
can come resurrection and life.
We're going to see eventually the Holy Spirit
coming into the world.
We're going to see a church born where there was none.
We're going to see people all over the world
transformed by the power of the Spirit.
Nothing is impossible with God.
Church, are we listening?
Are we listening?
Emmanuel means God with us.
Nothing is impossible when God is with us.
Are you ready to live in 2004
this reality of Emmanuel, God with you?
It's quite an encounter she has, isn't it?
And after this amazing encounter with the angel,
Mary travels to see her relative Elizabeth.
Three-day journey, possibly five-day journey.
And when she arrives at Elizabeth's home, she enters and greets her.
And I love this.
The baby in Elizabeth's womb leaped within her, excited about the presence of the child being formed in Mary's womb.
There's something about being in the presence of Jesus
that invites a reaction in our very souls.
That baby leaped within the womb.
And you know who that is?
It's John the Baptist.
We'll see him later.
John the Baptist in utero,
sensing the presence of God,
and he leaps in the womb.
Friends, when we experience the power of Jesus,
the very presence of Jesus,
there's something inside of us
that must cry out in worship.
We must leap for joy
Because the Lord has come, and that's what Christmas is all about.
Will you leap in your own way?
Will you really worship this season?
Jesus come, God in the flesh.
Will you really let go and abandon yourselves to love and to worship this baby that's come
to save you?
In your own way, will you leap for joy?
And that's the question.
What is our response to this child?
Amidst all the changes, all the challenges,
amidst all the personal struggles or pains or hurts you might have experienced,
or perhaps amidst all the good times and the blessings,
will you respond as John did to the very presence of Jesus?
Will you leap for joy that Christ has come this holiday Christmas season?
Will you leap for joy?
As we've talked about in weeks past, joy is a gift of God.
It's rooted in a strong, intimate relationship with our loving Lord.
It doesn't always mean that you're happy all the time,
but it means there's a confidence in the God who is for you and with you.
And there's nothing like that experience in the world.
All the fun things in the world, all the drugs in the world,
all the free love in the world,
all the things the world pursues with a vengeance
is nothing compared to the power and the presence
and the joy of God with us.
Nothing's impossible with God.
So church, will you worship God and love Him
and enjoy God forever?
In the midst of whatever you're facing,
challenges, changes, whatever it is,
will you love God with your heart, soul, mind, and strength?
Can you see God's hand in your life
in the midst of all this chaos and uncertainty of our world?
Can you see Him moving now
and want to take you to new heights, new places,
new places to grow?
Can you trust that God is with you?
Do you believe it?
Not only do you believe it in church and say amen,
but do you believe it Monday and Tuesday
and Wednesday and Thursday and so on?
eight days a week.
Do you believe it?
Can you believe that God has a special call in your life
to do something great for Him?
Can you believe He's given you gifts
that He wants to do ministry
and He wants to have you pursue things in this world
that people might know that He's alive?
He wants to stretch you and grow you.
Can you believe it?
Nothing is impossible with God.
Can you hear this?
Are you ready to live 2004
like it's the last year alive.
As we talked about a few weeks ago,
we don't know when the end has come.
Can we live as if each day is precious unto the Lord
and as if He really is with you?
Because He is with that kind of vitality
and focus and purpose.
Even if it's not easy, will you do it?
It wasn't easy for Mary.
This story looks sweet in a Hallmark store, doesn't it?
I love buying and putting up that little crash scene.
It's sweet, it's tender, it kind of pulls on the strings.
But you know, in reality, it was dank and dark and smelly and difficult.
You see, 2,000 years, we can cleanse it and sanitize it, but it was a messy, dirty reality.
But that's God entering into our real, messy, dirty, broken world.
And Jesus experienced every challenge, every temptation that we experience.
this is not a God who is removed and distant
this is a God who has walked in your shoes
some of you were born at St. Jude
with clean white sheets
and machines and all kinds of good things around
to sustain life
our Savior was born in a stable, in a cave
and put in a manger, a trough
for animals
this was not an easy scene
No painkillers for Mary's birth.
No tender place to place the child.
The ridicule, the challenges, the uncertain future of what she says.
Yes, Lord, whatever you want.
Your purpose is above mine.
I trust you.
Yes, Emmanuel, you are with me.
I'll do it.
Can that be our story as well?
I get motivated by this 15-year-old girl.
Oh, ministry is so hard.
I'm really stuck, I'm challenged, or whatever's going on, Mary said, yes, Lord, your business
might be struggling, your home life might be difficult, but can we say, yes, Lord, you're
with me, and take our cue from a 15-year-old in a backwater town where God did something
special.
So will you trust Jesus this Christmas season?
Will you worship him with full abandonment, give him your best, give him your all, give
him your very will, that you might allow him to do what he's calling in your life.
And if you will, 2004 will be unlike anything you've ever seen.
And my prayer is it'll be a great, growing, stretching year as you learn to trust him
each and every day, and that each day will be lived as an adventure before God, who is
Emmanuel, God with us.
Let's pray.
Lord, thank you for your power.
thank you that there
is nothing that can't be accomplished
through you and by your power
as we pray frequently
in this church may these not just be words
but be realities
that we take deep within us
that we chew on them and ingest
them and make them part of us
so Lord may we give our
total all in all to you
and Lord may 2004
be a year
of real growth
a real year of trusting you
in new things
letting you have parts of us
we've never given you
seeing your hand at work
as we live in dependence
day in and day out
on your Holy Spirit
we pray there would be ministry
that would flow out of us
there would be power and love
and trust that just pour forth
from a heart that is filled up with you
so Lord we commit this coming year
to living in a spirit of Mary
that says, be as it may, may your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. That's our prayer.
Lord, may this be a very special Christmas season. Lord, may we as the church be family
at this time. Be there for each other. May we see in each other, Emmanuel, God with us.
And may each of us encourage the other to live a life of worship, abandonment, and trust.
with a God who says nothing is impossible with him.
And may that be our story as well.
In Christ's precious, powerful name, amen.
I'm going to stand.
We're going to sing a couple songs.
