I've been able to lift more than 10 times my own body weight, and when you get down to it, handling dirt is, you know, is not my idea of a rewarding career. It's this whole gung-ho super-organism thing that I, you know, I can't get. I try, but I don't get it. I mean, you know, what is it? I'm supposed to do everything for the colony, and what about my needs? What about me?
I mean, I've got to believe there's some place out there that's better than this.
Otherwise, I would just curl up in a larval position and weep.
The whole system makes me feel insignificant.
Excellent.
You've made a real breakthrough.
I have?
Yes, Z.
You are insignificant.
I am?
Some of you might relate to that.
Do you feel insignificant as you work just in the system?
I just love Woody Allen's voice.
You can just hear the tension there.
Do you see your work as a four-letter word, or do you see it as a calling and a blessing?
The hardest thing, said a farmer about milking cows, is that they never stay milked.
That's good insight.
Do you say to yourself, thank God it's Friday, or do you say, thank God it's Monday?
What kind of an individual are you?
How do you approach your work and your week?
is it exciting to go into the workplace or you can't wait to get out of it? And it's Friday.
John Stott, great theologian, essentially summarized three basic views of work, and I
present them today. Number one, he says, one view in our society is that work is simply a nuisance.
It's just a nuisance. We tolerate our jobs because we have to. It's a way of earning a living. It's
tedious consequence of the fall it's a nuisance and you know a researcher said that between 50
and 80 percent of working americans are in a job that doesn't match their gifts and their abilities
and so so many people feel like they're in the wrong place and therefore work is just a nuisance
to scholars mattson and miller some christians who've done extensive research into work and
calling. They found that in the teaching profession alone, they found that at least two-thirds of the
teachers aren't motivated to teach. That's a very frightening statistic. A job like that is so
crucial to our culture and our society. And they found that managers and executives, that one out
of three appears to be actually well matched for their job. One in three. This is frightening. Many
clergy are not gifted at the central requirements of their job, like preaching and teaching and
evangelism. People obviously are in the wrong slots. They don't fit, and therefore work is
interpreted as a nuisance. Number two, John Stott points out that many think that work is simply
meaningless, just meaningless. I love how in this great book, Working, Studs Terkel interviews a
number of individuals about their work, and one of the characters is a 28-year-old Pennsylvania
writer who writes for health care literature, and she says this great comment. She says,
jobs are not big enough for people. She writes, it's not just the assembly line worker whose job
is too small for his spirit, you know. A job like mine, if you really put your spirit into it,
you would sabotage immediately she says jobs aren't big enough for people she says my mind
has been so divorced from my job except as a source of income she says it's really absurd
wow sad commentary and the third is others view that work just is you never think about it
You just do it. It's just what has to be done.
It's never contemplated at all.
H.L. Mencken once said,
I go on working for the same reason that a hen goes on laying eggs.
It's like you're just a compulsive worker because hens compulsively lay eggs.
We just do it, i.e. it's never thought about.
Work just is.
Perhaps you see yourself reflecting some of those values,
or maybe you did it one time.
And my question is, are people who are called to Jesus Christ, who call Him Master and Savior,
are we supposed to think and feel those values?
Or should it be different for us?
Does our faith in Jesus impact how we view work or not?
Do we have a higher purpose?
Does our work have a higher purpose?
What should our attitude be at work?
Should we be there with gusto and vim and vigor, or are we there just to tolerate our work?
I'd like to explore the Scriptures this morning and show us what God's Word says about our work.
In Genesis 1, we start at the beginning.
We see God as a worker.
God worked.
He created the world and the heavens, and it was good.
The Bible says in Genesis 1 and verse 31,
In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth.
And then God looked over all he had made, and he saw that it was excellent in every way.
God worked.
And then in Genesis 1, 26 to 28, we see that human beings are workers as well.
We are to tend and to manage the earth.
It says in that chapter 1, verse 26,
Then God said, Let us make people in our image to be like ourselves.
They will be masters over all the life, the fish in the sea, the birds in the sky,
and all the livestock, wild animals and small animals.
So God created people in His own image.
God patterned them after Himself.
Male and female He created them.
And God blessed them and told them,
multiply and fill the earth and subdue it.
Be masters over the fish and the birds
and all the animals.
Many see work, including many in the church.
We see our work as somehow a result of the fall, that somehow after there was sin in the world, God banished us to work.
In reality, that's not true at all.
Before the fall, God had intended that human beings work in relationship that God is one who works.
As one author said, the curse of the fall is not that we have to work, but that we have to work by the sweat of our brow.
and that's very different work is no longer a pure expression of being it's now contaminated
with the laborious requirement to take care of physical needs he writes we become preoccupied
with toil and wages and we exist in a spiritual blindness that cuts us off from the vision that
adam was conscious of in the garden work for adam was very different than we experience it
how do we come back to that experience in some way?
The Bible also affirms that work is related to our need to provide for our families.
The Bible clearly affirms this in 2 Thessalonians in the New Testament.
Even while we were with you, writes Paul, we gave you this rule,
whoever does not work should not eat.
Yet we hear that some of you are living idle lives,
refusing to work and wasting time and meddling in other people's business.
In the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, we appeal to such people, no, we command them, settle down and get to work.
Earn your own living, and I say to the rest of you, dear brothers and sisters, never get tired of doing good or encouraged to work.
1 Timothy, Paul writes later,
if anyone does not provide for his relatives,
and especially for his immediate family,
he has denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever.
So part of our work is to be a providing experience
for our family and for ourselves.
But there are other realities about work that the Bible talks about
that we may not realize yet, and I want to unpack those this morning.
First is that work is created for the fulfillment of the worker.
Have you thought about it like that?
Work, as God designed it, is to fulfill the worker.
God has made us creative creatures.
God has given us gifts and intends for us to use them.
Why? To be fulfilled, not frustrated.
Fulfilled, not frustrated.
Look back at that creation account.
The creation as God's work is expressive of who God is.
A creative God, wonderful God.
And for God to express all of that in creation, we are too to express who we are in our work.
And so Adam is to work and express his being in the garden.
But as we've seen, many of you work as just a means of getting more stuff.
It's a way to get more money, to get more stuff.
Somehow that has become the reason to work, to get more stuff.
but God has always intended that we co-create with Him,
expressing something of ourselves,
being made in the image of God who is a creator and a worker.
Work was intended to express who we really are.
That's incredible if we really think about it,
the way to express who we are.
The writer of Ecclesiastes, as many of you know, was a rather pessimistic fellow,
and yet even in all of his pessimism he writes this,
So I decided there's nothing better than to enjoy food and drink and to find, listen, satisfaction in work.
He understood that.
Then I realized that this pleasure is from the hand of God.
For who can eat or enjoy anything apart from Him?
We are to find satisfaction.
Nothing better for people than to be happy in their work.
That's why they're here.
Friends, what about retirement?
You still work, whether you work for pay or work to serve.
It's a place to experience fulfillment as you serve others and predominantly serve the Lord.
I've got a long ways to go ahead of me in my career.
And some days I meet with friends who are already retired, and boy, retirement looks good to me.
It really does.
And I think, I've got 30-some-odd years to go, maybe 40 by the time I get out there.
Who knows? Maybe 50. Who knows?
But I think of some of you that are retired now and you have time to really pour into the kingdom
and to do things and express yourself in creative ways that others may or may not have the ability or opportunity.
But what a blessing to be in retirement and to say,
Lord, I've got all these experiences and all these talents and all these gifts.
How may I serve you?
What a privilege.
What a privilege.
Work is for the fulfillment of the worker.
And whether you're retired or not can be a real blessing.
Number two, the Bible affirms that work is also for the benefit of the community,
the community that we live in.
Because throughout the Bible, it talks about the productivity of the soil
as being related to the needs of the community.
Israel was given a land flowing with milk and honey.
At the same time, they were issued instructions about how the harvest was to be shared and given to the poor and the alien and the widow and the orphan.
The work was also to bless the community.
In the New Testament, Ephesians 4.28, the Bible says, Paul writes,
If you are a thief, stop stealing, begin using your hands for honest work, and then, listen to this, give generously to others in need.
Work is not just so we can get more stuff.
Work is also for the benefit of the community, that we can bless others.
Paul says to the Ephesian elders in Acts chapter 20,
he says,
As you know that these hands of mine have worked to pay my own way,
and I have even supplied the needs of those who were with me,
and I have been a constant example of how you can help the poor by working hard.
You should remember the words of the Lord Jesus,
it is more blessed to give than to receive so work you can begin to see is for the blessing
in the community when our work has connection to the betterment of the community it can take on
that meaning and that fulfillment we mentioned in point number one i saw a film a few weeks ago i
rented it called enigma how many of you seen this not too many well then i'm just going to tell you
I won't give it away, but here's one scene.
The Enigma is the machine that the Nazis used in World War II to hide the code,
and they could communicate between the troops in the various theaters.
They would type into this box.
It would come out gobbledygook.
They would take that message to another box, type it back in,
and it would come out back in the language they understand.
The British were trying to crack that code, trying to figure out how that box worked.
They had the mechanism, but they needed to know what the code, the signals were,
to make it come out and crack the code.
And in one very interesting scene, the protagonist in the film is in a room
with all of these women wearing headphones.
And they're listening to the code as it comes in.
But it's not anything they can decipher.
They're just writing and typing the letters, but it means nothing.
And she says to this code cracker, as he comes into the room,
She says, is what we're doing, are we helping to win the war?
Is it making a difference?
Are you making sense of the code?
And at that point, they were still trying to crack the code.
But he wanted them to keep going.
And he said, yes, it matters.
We're getting there.
We're winning.
It's making sense.
And in effect, keep on doing it.
And let's be honest.
sitting there listening to just blips and dashes all day long and transcribing felt meaningless
and tiresome. But because it had a larger purpose, she smiled and she went back to her desk,
put on the headphones, and kept on going. When we understand that what we do is a blessing for
the larger picture, for the community in which we are in, it takes on a different kind of meaning.
It gives us a purpose.
And clearly, she was excited to know that her contribution at that one desk in this large room of Code Crackers
was making a difference in the war.
Our work is a blessing.
When we discover how we see it impact the community, it really can be a wonderful thing.
The Bible sees work as part of a community project.
and so we as people we want to be connected to something that's larger than ourselves and my
encouragement is to begin to look at your work how does what i do impact my community how is it a
blessing for others around me how can it be a blessing to the poor the widow and the orphan
and the alien work is for the fulfillment of the worker workers for the betterment of the community
And finally, work is also for the service of God.
Because in reality, the betterment of the community
and serving the Lord are not that inseparable.
Notice that God deliberately arranges life,
that He, in a sense, and I use this word carefully,
but He needs us, He wants us to be a part of what He's doing.
In fact, He has chosen to use us to share the message around the world.
He works with us and through us.
And that's one example.
But God also set up that garden and wanted Adam to tend to it,
that it might not become a wilderness, that it might be a beautiful garden.
He designed it so that Adam would work with God in the preservation of the garden.
God wants our dependence on Him for everything.
But in a sense, He's also set up the world to depend on us.
He needs us to be involved in things in the world where things get out of control.
There's a story of the man who came upon a stone quarry.
A number of men were working, and one said, well, what am I doing?
He said, well, I'm digging stone.
That's one way to look at it.
The other one, when turned to, said, what are you doing here?
He says, well, I'm earning $100 a week.
One way to look at your work.
The third man stuck his chest out, and he said, I'm building a cathedral.
I'm building a cathedral.
He's serving the Lord in his work.
What he's doing has impact in the kingdom,
building a place for people to gather and express their love to God.
God has us co-labor with him to accomplish his purposes,
and when that happens, friends, work can become, and listen to this,
work can become an expression of worship.
Work can become an expression of worship.
It's not that we worship our jobs,
but our jobs can be an expression
of us giving worship to God.
The Bible says in Colossians 3.23,
sorry, rather 1 Corinthians 10.31, the first one,
so whether you eat or drink or whatever you do,
Do it all for the glory of God.
Can you be a policeman for the glory of God?
You bet.
You are bringing peace to a community.
You bless others in your work.
And you can do it with excellence and with high morals and high integrity,
and it's an act of worship unto God.
Can you be an artist for the Lord?
Absolutely.
Be a teacher unto God?
Absolutely.
Think of all the occupations and all the calling and all the jobs in this room,
and each one can be done as an expression of worship when done under the service of the Lord.
Colossians 3.23 says,
Work hard and cheerfully at whatever you do,
as though you were working for the Lord rather than for people.
That'll blow your boss's mind.
When you go in and you do everything they say,
but really you're not working just to please them.
You're working to please the Lord.
This job is unto the Lord.
Transcribing code in the World War II is a way to say,
Lord, I give you my skills, and this space is sacred space
because I'm with you and you're with me,
and we're going to do this unto the Lord.
Work can be a sacred space.
Have you ever thought about your work as a place
where you bring God into your world,
where you can honor him with your excellent craftsmanship,
your excellent attitude, with your excellent skills that God has given you,
and bless the community by the product, whatever it is that you put out,
whether it's a widget or transforming people or anything that you do,
it's an act of worship.
According to the Puritans, Tim Downs writes,
all professions are spiritual to the Christian,
not because of the nature of the work,
but because of the presence of God in you.
And he writes, when a Christian, the temple of the Holy Spirit, walks into an office at
IBM, IBM becomes a sacred space.
The hospital that you work in becomes a sacred space.
The engineering firm becomes a sacred space.
The theater, the office, wherever you are, whether you're retired or whether you're actively
working, wherever you are becomes sacred space because God is in you and you bring God into
those spaces.
What a calling, what a privilege to co-create with God
and let Him use you to bless the community
and to live out in your work as an act of worship.
Work can be a service for God.
It also is a blessing to God as you bring Jesus into your workplace
because there, through your work, through your attitude, through your excellence,
through how you relate to others, people will notice that you are different
because you're not working just to impress the boss.
you're working to bless the Lord. And friends, that will get noticed. It really will. Because
you're the worker that's there on time with ethics. You're the one who actually speaks well
of others. You hold your tongue when you want to lash out. You are different in your work. That's
how our work is transformed by Jesus. We are different in how we approach it, how we do it,
and how we bring Him to it.
And friends, when you work in the world,
you are living out the hands and feet of Jesus.
Way before your friend comes to visit here,
they're seeing Jesus in you out there.
And what a high calling and privilege that is,
is to express Jesus in your occupations in the world today.
And so when you leave this sanctuary,
we send you with Jesus and the Holy Spirit out into the world
to change it and to live out the values of the kingdom
in whatever workplace you have.
Whether you're raising children or grandchildren
or working in a big office building
or outside or inside, it doesn't matter.
It's all sacred.
It's all work unto the Lord.
Wow.
So, do we live, thank God it's Friday?
Or thank God it's Monday?
I can live out these experiences unto God
as I go to work.
I hope you enjoy tomorrow as a day off
I hope for many of you that will be a day off
and I hope Tuesday morning comes around
and you say Lord I am yours
this is your day
may I live for you
and may my work be transformed in some way
what a privilege and an honor
and may your co-workers see Jesus in you
so with that there's a song that David's going to sing
expresses that very value
that as you get out there into the world,
your relationship with Christ will transform you
and others will see Jesus for the first time in you.
Dave, would you share with us?
