Thank you, Rob.
As we get underway in the holiday season, we hear those wonderful carols and songs,
and we see the Southern California fake snow painted in the windows of stores.
We just want it to be cold outside.
And I have to confess, we had a party.
Our Crown Ministry study got together for our first social last night, kind of a quasi-Christmas party.
And it was so hot, we couldn't even light the fire to make it feel like we were having winter.
But, you know, that's why we live here, folks, and it is a wonderful thing.
Praise God for beautiful weather the past few days.
Praise God that he's been good to us.
We continue that in Advent.
And from last year, we talked about fear and hope.
We talked about how fear can paralyze us from doing what God wants us to do.
We talked about how trust in the Lord is the opposite of fear.
And that if we give ourselves over to trusting in the Lord,
He wants to use us to make a powerful difference in the world around us.
You see, God wants to use you and me to cleanse the world,
to cleanse our culture, to make the world a better place
in which to have relationships with each other and primarily with God himself.
He wants to use you to bring the gospel, the good news of Jesus Christ,
to others in your sphere of influence.
And instead of holding back,
instead of holding back in fear
and living safe and secure
and yet in some ways kind of banal lives,
the opposite is to enter this world
and to live with a godly confidence
and to boldly go forward
and make a difference for Him.
You see, sometimes I think we Christians,
we think the world is just plain evil
and that somehow what really matters in life
is spirituality and spirituality alone.
But you know that that's been around a long time.
That idea has been around since the time of the earliest Greek philosophers.
It's not new.
Yes, the world is broken, the world is sick, and it's sinful.
But it's not inherently evil.
You see, matter is not evil.
Flesh is not evil.
In fact, God created these things and declared them good.
If you think about it, God is the one who took on flesh and redeemed it.
Made a difference in our world, in our souls.
And the church in the world has this challenge in front of it.
It is easy sometimes for the church to want to hunker down
and stay pure from the influences of the world.
But Jesus, our Master, was one who came and entered the world,
took on flesh, spent his life amongst people.
He was in the world, but as we've said, not of it.
And as his disciples, as ones who follow him,
we are to enter the world with confidence because we have the Holy Spirit.
We have God with us in the form of the Holy Spirit.
And we're here to renounce fear and make a profound difference in the world around us.
And so here we are at Advent, our second week.
And we're symbolically waiting for the birth of the Lord.
And I'm encouraging us this way, to wait now for the return of the Lord.
And in so doing, by serving Him with diligence and without fear.
I want you to listen to what the Scriptures teach us today.
This is not a typical Advent text.
It's time to do something different.
I've chosen one that's probably the most non-advent you could get,
but I think you'll see why I've chosen it.
From Matthew 25, would you take a look with me?
But when the Son of Man comes in his glory,
and all the angels with him,
then he will sit upon his glorious throne,
and all the nations will be gathered in his presence,
and he will separate them as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats.
He will place the sheep at his right hand and the goats at his left,
and the king will say to those on the right,
Come, you who are blessed by my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world.
For I was hungry, and you fed me.
I was thirsty, and you gave me a drink.
I was a stranger, and you invited me into your home.
I was naked, and you gave me clothing.
I was sick, and you cared for me.
I was in prison, and you visited me.
Then these righteous ones will reply,
Lord, when did we ever see you hungry and feed you?
Or thirsty and give you something to drink?
Or a stranger and show you hospitality?
Or naked and give you clothing?
When did we ever see you sick in prison and visit you?
And the king will tell them,
I assure you that when you did it to the least of these, my brothers and sisters,
you were doing it to me.
And the king will return to those on the left and say,
Away with you, you cursed ones, into the fire prepared for the devil and his demons.
for I was hungry and you didn't feed me.
I was thirsty and you didn't give me anything to drink.
I was a stranger and you didn't invite me into your home.
I was naked and you gave me no clothing.
I was sick and in prison and you didn't visit me.
And they will reply,
Lord, when did we ever see you hungry or thirsty or naked
or a stranger in prison and not help you?
And he will answer,
I assure you when you refuse to help
the least of these, my brothers and sisters,
you're refusing to help me.
They will go away to eternal punishment
for the righteous will go into eternal life.
There's a lot in this text, but I want to concentrate on this one idea.
When the disciples of Jesus serve fellow followers of Jesus, that Jesus is the one being served.
Whatever we do to the least of these disciples, we do unto Jesus himself.
There's a few things I want to point out from this text.
The first one is that Jesus identifies himself with his disciples.
He so identifies himself literally with the disciples.
When you clothe a fellow believer, you are clothing Jesus.
When you feed a fellow believer, you're feeding Jesus.
And on and on.
Jesus identifies himself with his followers.
And in that sense, the followers of Jesus truly are the hands and the feet of Jesus in the world today.
But as more than metaphorical application,
An author, Leonard Sweet, opened me to some new ideas,
and I did some research to validate some things I was reading,
and I wanted to share them with you.
These are fascinating.
I want to see that all truth is God's truth.
And sometimes the different sciences can inform our thinking in theology
and about truth from God's Word.
And I want to share something with you I discovered.
In 1982, there were some laboratory experiments that were done by Alan Aspect,
building on a guy's work by the name of John Bell.
And they showed that particles, this is so interesting to me, particles a few meters apart actually, in a sense, communicate with each other.
And that sounds really bizarre.
But you separate particles apart and they, in a sense, dance together even when they're separated.
And they began to think about, well, what does that mean if we can show this to be true in a laboratory?
And it was said by John Gribben this, if everything that ever interacted in the Big Bang maintains its connection with everything it interacted with,
then every particle in every star and galaxy that we see knows about the existence of every other particle.
That's a wild idea.
Somehow, we're discovering that things are very interconnected.
Every particle has a connection with every other particle in the universe.
Sharp and Walgate, two scientists, have said this.
The spooky, non-local correlations at a distance might evidence, listen, a holy ghost at work.
The scientists are patting the theologians on the back saying, that sounds like a god at work.
They're catching up.
It's good news.
Think about this.
Things are connected.
We're showing that at the quantum level, things are connected.
So when you serve a fellow follower of Jesus, you're serving Jesus.
It's all connected.
Isn't that interesting how that begins to play out?
It's all connected.
And here's the application of that.
The practical outpouring of these ideas in this kind of mindset is this.
The early church, when they began to serve each other and serve Jesus as they were all connected,
the early church exploded with growth.
It just mushroomed.
People loved each other.
When the church learned to out-love the pagans, they out-served everybody.
And the early church were loving Jesus by serving their fellow pilgrims.
When I love you, I'm loving the Lord.
When you love me, you're loving Jesus, because we're all connected.
Isn't that amazing?
See, the people in the time of the early church knew there was something radically different
about those who called themselves the followers of what they called the way.
The people who followed Jesus had more love than the people who didn't.
People who followed Jesus had more ability to get out and do things
and make a difference in the community.
There was a Holy Spirit tangible in these people.
And it came out in love in a phenomenal amount of different ways.
And the surrounding communities were saying,
we want what those people have.
We want that kind of love.
We want something supernatural that's sweeping through those people.
To the early church understood, when you serve others, you're serving Jesus
because they're connected, and the church grew by leaps and bounds.
Friends, that can happen again today.
I don't believe that was for then.
I believe that's then and the next day, all the way up to today,
and all the way through tomorrow and the next.
If we love people, love Jesus by loving other people,
the church, I believe, can explode again.
Are we ready to love?
We're ready to love.
The second thing I want to point out from this text
is when you love your neighbor as yourself,
you are, in a sense, loving Jesus.
Because by extension,
not only when you're loving people
who are followers of Jesus
are you loving the Lord,
but in the great commandment,
Jesus even said this,
you must love the Lord your God,
all of your heart,
all of your soul,
and all of your mind.
That's the first and the greatest commandment.
And a second is equally important, to love your neighbor as yourself.
When you're loving your neighbors, when you love your communities,
when you love the people of your cities, by extension, you're loving Jesus as well.
And I raise this question.
Why is it today that schools and businesses and civic clubs
are more known for loving the community than the churches?
Did you realize that nowadays in many schools and in many businesses today
that public service in the form of getting out of the community
is mandated as part of what you do to be a part of that institution.
It's just part of it.
If you're going to work at a large company,
10% of your time must be placed back into the community.
The civic clubs are known for community service.
The churches today are known for having closed-door meetings.
It's not the way it's supposed to be.
One of the challenges I've given to our staff here,
if you're on full-time with us,
is that I want you to be mandated as part of your job description
in some kind of civic organization in our community.
We've got to get back out there, not always in here.
We've got to take seriously these words of Paul, Ephesians chapter 2.
For we are God's workmanship, created in Christ Jesus to do what?
To do good works, which God prepared in advance for us to do.
The Living Bible does the same verse a little different way.
I want you to hear this.
It says, it is God himself who has made us what we are
and given us new lives from Christ Jesus.
And long ages ago, he planned that we should spend these lives, how?
In helping others in those good works,
in loving our communities, in loving each other,
and by extension, by loving Jesus in so doing.
I love what Martin Luther, the great church reformer, wrote this.
He says, no tree bears fruit for its own use.
Everything in God's will gives itself.
Isn't that beautiful?
One author in Contra Distinction pointed out this stark realism.
He said, something is terribly wrong
when the strongest moral voice out there
is Oprah Winfrey and Laura Schlesinger.
Think about that.
I mean, they're saying some good things,
but they're also saying some things that aren't so good.
It's time, friends, for the local church
to rise up, to serve, and to be counted.
It's time for local church to get out there
and love this world by loving Jesus
and loving these people and being obedient to Him.
Love Jesus by loving our neighbors.
It's time for the church to be known again
as the place where real love is manifested,
where the communities are loved tangible ways,
where more than the service clubs,
the churches are known as loving communities that make a difference in the world. I'm not
knocking the service groups. I think it's wonderful. But when people who may not know
the Lord gather together and are known for loving the community more than the church,
church has a problem. It's time for us to get out and to love the world. And finally,
I want to say this, that you individually, each of us, can make a difference. You can
and do make a difference.
Now, George Carlin said this,
a little wisdom from the comedian.
He said, scientists have announced today
they found a cure for apathy,
but they claim that no one has shown
the slightest bit of interest in it.
It's true.
Contrary to that,
the followers of Jesus are a people
who know they were put on this earth
for a purpose, for a relationship with God,
for each other,
and to do what?
To make a difference in the world.
We were placed here to make a mark for Jesus in the world.
It's the opposite of apathy.
We have a mission.
We've got a purpose.
Can we embrace it, each of us, and as a church corporately, and go forth and serve?
As we're beginning to see with the challenge of the five coins that Pastor Dave has brought us into,
you can take five gold coins, five dollars, and make a big difference with something so small as a few coins.
An encouraging word here,
encouraging word there,
a hand over here,
you can make a big difference in this world.
Especially, think about it again,
if everything is connected,
there's great power in loving somebody over here
because you never know how that person's going to be awakened
and transformed and do something over here
and can change the world.
And it starts with your hand.
When things are connected,
loving a little bit can go a long ways.
It can make a difference in the world.
It's the whole premise in the film, Pay It Forward.
A little bit can go a long ways.
Think about that again.
The smallest units of matter in science,
packed into the quantum level at the most smallest level
of the building blocks of the universe,
are also the place where the greatest energy is released.
At the smallest levels, there's more energy than we know what to do with.
The atomic explosion just shows what a small bit of matter can do.
Now think about that.
The smallest bit of love in the right places can do amazing things.
Small can make a big impact.
Leonard Sweet said it this way.
As the figure skater spins faster, the smaller he or she becomes.
So the smallest units can amass the greatest amounts of energy
and create the greatest amounts of change.
Never before has the world been so instantaneously reachable
by one person, one touch, one helping hand.
If that doesn't fire up the salsa in your souls
to live lives of significance,
he says, what will?
Does that just kind of make the salsa in your soul?
I love that phrase.
Can somehow the reality that you can make a difference
with the smallest touch here and there
in the community loving people
because things are connected.
Doesn't that make you want to get out and try something
and just watch how it extends in this world
instead of just staying in the walls of the church
to get out and change the world?
Millard Fuller was a millionaire entrepreneur,
rich and miserable man.
He got to know some people who taught him Jesus,
and he began a little organization called Habitat for Humanity
to change the world.
Now homes are built all over the world
for those who do not have the means to purchase a fancy home.
He says, I don't do it this reason.
The reason I do what I do, and so many of our volunteers do what they do,
is because we're being obedient to Jesus.
The organization started to change the world.
Chuck Colson goes to prison for Watergate.
He's so burdened for the families of prisoners and prisoners like himself,
he starts a prison fellowship that now operates in 80 countries.
And from that, the Angel Tree Ministry delivers packages
and Christmas gifts to the children of those who are in prison.
It's starting out of an idea.
It changes so many people.
It's Bill McGee, a plastic surgeon,
who goes into third world countries
to repair the cleft palates of children who were born with birth defects.
They can't afford this.
He goes around and makes a difference in every one of their lives,
and they can point, why does he do it?
Because he's being obedient to Jesus.
Cheryl Maxwell and Pat Zollinger from this congregation
give their time during the week
to counsel and minister to those women
who have been abused in families and by their spouses,
and they minister to the children,
and they give spiritual counsel and love
and minister and touch to people right in this community,
and they are changing lives
in being out there and loving people.
They were acknowledged and honored recently
by the Transitional Center
as two volunteers that they mentioned this church by name
that are making a huge difference in the lives of people in this community.
And I was so proud of them.
So proud of them.
I spent an evening this week with the Agape Circle for a little bit.
And they told me, and we watched,
I saw how they put together and are taking things for White Cross
and how they're sending those items across the globe
and actually going to some of our own missionaries,
Mark Thompson in the Congo,
as he works in a hospital setting in the deep in the Congo
that is so far back, it seems almost primitive
in terms of the medical science they have
and the things, the bandages and the sheets
and things that we tear and send and roll,
that send out there, they use that stuff
and it touches lives in the most amazing places.
From some people gathered together,
sharing fellowship and rolling bandages,
so simple, but changing the world, touching lives.
I can go on and on and on with stories like that.
Friends, we can make a big difference in the community
in the home of our friends and neighbors.
We can make a difference right here in this church facility.
But the question is, do we really believe that?
Do we believe that our lives count for something
to make a difference in this world?
I hope I'm getting the salsa in your soul fired up.
I hope the little chili peppers in your soul
are starting to ignite and get warm.
And you're saying, you know,
I'm going to get out there and do something.
Because I love my Lord Jesus.
I want to love somebody in His name.
and you never know how this is connected to that,
it's connected to this,
how one bit of pouring into this person
can have huge impact in our world.
How do you make a difference?
Let's talk about the church for a minute.
Let's talk about people who come here.
Let's be really honest for a second.
The day is gone when people kept their stuff indoors.
The day is gone when people wanted to come to a church
and everybody had their act together.
Friends, people's stuff, their dysfunction, is just out there.
It's on television. It's just part of talk show.
It's just the world we live in.
It's out there. There's no more secrets.
And the reality is this.
People want to come into the church and they want to know,
are other people here still trying to put things together,
or does everybody have their act together?
Friends, we don't.
We just pretend like we do.
Can we be the place where people can come
and not be insecure that everybody has their act together,
but the church is a place where they can get real needs met?
Well, they know that if they come, they can put their lives back together because Jesus is here.
You see, we may not feel like we can do everything for everybody.
And that's why there's lots of different kinds of churches.
We really can't meet every single need that comes through, but we can meet a lot of needs as they come through.
And here's the basic thing.
We know these basic issues, and if we know these basic issues, we can touch the lives of other people.
We can minister to others, and here's why.
Because we know that humanity is flawed and broken and sinful.
We know that people are seeking meaning to their lives,
answers for their souls, healing for their hearts.
We know that Jesus came to fulfill those needs and to offer forgiveness
and to offer peace with God.
We can tell somebody that.
And if we know those basics, if we can just get a handle on those few basic issues,
then we can simply listen to somebody else's story
and we can find the links between their story and God's story.
We can find the links and make a few connections.
We can all be ministers.
We are all ministers.
And if fear is holding us back,
we can release ourselves
and ask the power of the Holy Spirit to fill us,
to free us from the fear of loving other people,
from the fear of getting involved in the lives of people.
we can, if we renounce fear, make a huge difference in this world.
That's the kind of church that Jesus is calling us to be.
It makes a huge difference in this community.
Ken Miedema, an amazing musician, an amazing theologian in his own right,
is the kind of man who is blind,
and yet because his lack of sight has developed his ear in a powerful way,
he's the guy that can sit and listen to a sermon,
and by the end of the message, he'll go to the piano and play a song
that encapsulates the entire heart of that message.
And he did it in about three minutes.
He wrote this after a message he heard.
He wrote,
If this is not the place where tears are understood, where can I go to cry?
If this is not the place where my spirit can take wing, where do I go to fly?
If this, the church, is not the place where my questions can be asked,
Where do I go to seek?
If this is not the place where my feelings can be heard,
where do I go to speak?
If this is not the place where you accept me just as I am,
where do I go to be free?
If this is not the place where I can try and grow and love,
where do I go to be just me?
Great words for the church.
Friends, you are God's people,
redeemed and loved and sanctified.
Made ready and beautiful to serve and to love this world.
This is the body of Christ.
And if that kind of love doesn't pour out of the body of Christ,
then where is it going to come from?
It must come from us as the people of God.
Philip Yancey, you know I love his writing.
He said in a great quote here,
he says, in a paradox of faith,
the one who shares love comes away enriched, not impoverished.
You notice that?
That's why it's more blessed to give than to receive.
Because in the act of giving, you actually are enriched.
In pouring out, you're filled.
It's a great paradox.
The more you take in Jesus, and then the more you give out,
the more you're blessed, and you're the one that walks away truly filled and encouraged.
When you love others, when you get involved, when you serve, you actually become enriched.
The teacher walks away more blessed.
The preacher actually learns the message better than anybody else.
The servant who gets involved in the lives of people
actually walks away that night and sits down
and is more blessed than actually the one who received.
For those who do, you see they grow.
When you get out and do these things,
you are enriched, your soul grows.
That's good.
So last, I want to say, who is God calling you to minister to?
Who in your life are you sensing that God really wants you
to make a difference in their life?
Where can you get involved in the ministry?
Where can you be involved in what the Holy Spirit is doing?
Where is God calling you, each of us,
corporately and individually, to make a difference?
Where, as we wait for the return of the Lord,
are we called to make a difference?
And I would ask what names and faces are coming to mind.
I suspect that there are people that God is placing in your mind
that you know you're supposed to be out there loving in some way.
It could be family.
It could be your neighbors.
It could be friends.
It could be somebody that you met here.
Who knows?
But God wants to make a difference through you.
By loving others, we love our Lord.
By loving others, we love Jesus.
Can we be the hands and feet of the Lord in this world today?
We're waiting symbolically for the birth of the Son.
We're really waiting for the return of the Lord.
And until he comes, we have a mission to make a difference in our world.
And so while everybody is gathered to have the parties and to celebrate this season,
we can come and share and communicate the real reason for this season.
And to love others in Jesus' name.
And tell them, I'm doing this because I love Jesus and I want you to love him as well.
And make a huge difference in the world.
Let's pray.
Father, help us to see that you've raised us up
and given us gifts and talents in the Holy Spirit
to make a huge difference in this world.
So Father, may we renounce fear.
may we put that aside
and trust in your Holy Spirit
to move boldly into this world
to love you by loving others
I pray that you'd open up doors
and windows and outlets
for expression of love
that you'd put people in our lives
directly in front of us
that we can't step around
that you're calling us to step out
and make a difference
and then by loving them
we love you
thank you that you came
and took on flesh
now may we love people
and touch them
and hold them and encourage them.
Put a hand on their back and say Jesus loves them.
Father, I pray you do great things
through Fullerton First Baptist.
Father, you've called us here for over 100 years
to shine the truth in this community.
We're not about to roll over.
Father, the fire is just growing bigger.
I pray you give us that kind of vision,
a heart for the community.
I pray that our community would know
Fullerton First Baptist as a church that prays,
a church that plays,
a church that loves
and makes a huge difference
in North Orange County
and beyond
spark in us Lord
a desire
a passion
to love you in tangible ways
this holiday season and beyond
and we're going to look forward to the fruit
you'll bring through that Lord
so raise us up
prepare us for the things you have for us
and we give you thanks
for the privilege
of being a part of what you're doing in the world
so Father we're going to sing
these songs will come as we are.
Take us as we are.
Use us as we are.
Fill us up and send us out.
And Lord, I pray now for those this morning
who are sensing a call upon their life
to commit to a new level of ministry
or to give their lives to you for the first time.
Father, you'd stir within them desire
to take that step,
to be counted, to be found.
Minister this morning, I pray, by your Holy Spirit.
In Jesus' name.
Thank you.
