And here we are.
At that time, the Roman Emperor Augustus
decreed that a census should be taken throughout the Roman Empire.
This was the first census taken when Quirinius was governor of Syria.
All returned to their own towns to register for this census.
And because Joseph was a descendant of King David,
he had to go to Bethlehem in Judea, David's ancient home.
He traveled there from the village of Nazareth in Galilee.
He took with him Mary, his fiancée, who was obviously pregnant at this time.
And while they were there, the time came for her baby to be born.
She gave birth to her first child, a son.
She wrapped him snugly in strips of cloth and laid him in a manger
because there was no room for them in the village inn.
And that night, some shepherds were in the fields outside the village,
guarding their flocks of sheep.
And suddenly an angel of the Lord appeared among them,
and the radiance of the Lord's glory surrounded them.
They were terribly frightened.
But the angel reassured them,
Don't be afraid.
I bring you good news of great joy for everyone.
The Savior, yes, the Messiah, the Lord, has been born tonight in Bethlehem.
the city of David and this is how you will recognize him you will find a baby lying in a
manger wrapped snugly in strips of cloth and suddenly the angel was joined by a vast host
of others the armies of heaven praising God glory to God in the highest heaven and peace on earth
to all whom God favors when the angels had returned to heaven the shepherds said to each
other, come on, let's go to Bethlehem. Let's see this wonderful thing that has happened, which the
Lord has told us about. And they ran to the village and found Mary and Joseph. And there was the baby
lying in the manger. And the shepherds told everyone what had happened and what the angel
had said to them about this child. And all who heard the shepherd's story were astonished.
But Mary quietly treasured these things in her heart
and thought about them often.
The shepherds went back to their fields and flocks
and glorifying and praising God for what the angels had told them
because they had seen the child just as the angel had said.
From God's perspective,
from God's perspective, the time was finally right.
During a Roman occupation, amidst a census,
After an 80-mile trek on the back of a donkey, the time was right for Jesus to be born.
The young family approached the place of lodging, and they found no room in which to stay.
You know, Zig Ziglar tells a story about something like that.
Zig's brother was traveling on business and came to a hotel and asked also for a room for the night.
The manager told them there were no rooms available.
They were totally full.
And Zig's brother said, really?
Now be honest with me, Mr. Manager.
If the President of the United States walked through that door just now and requested a room,
would you have a place for him to stay?
And the manager replied, well, if the President, I guess, needed a room, we'd find one for him.
And Zig's brother said quickly, that's great, because I know for a fact he's not coming,
so I'll take his room.
Now Joseph and his delicate bride-to-be, they didn't have that kind of clout.
They weren't able with any power or influence to free any rooms that night.
So to the stable they went.
And there in the midst of the hay, the animals, the smell, and the pain, Jesus was born.
A humble birth in the most humble of circumstances.
Philip Yancey describes it this way, he says,
The God who roared, who could order armies and empires about like pawns on a chessboard,
this God emerged in Palestine as a baby who could not speak or eat solid food or even control his bladder,
who depended on a teenager for shelter, food, and love.
The King is born.
The King is born.
humble circumstances and to whom does the birth announcement go to the shepherds to shepherds
let's talk about shepherd for a few moments the birth announcement doesn't go out to the rich
the powerful the press the media it goes to shepherds people at the bottom of the social stack
Low rung of the social ladder.
These are people that don't count.
Nobody cares about shepherds.
When a king is born, you don't go tell the shepherds.
That's ridiculous.
For instance, when Princess Diana's sons Harry and William were born,
they didn't send a messenger down to the docks to break the news to the fishermen and the longshoremen.
It doesn't work that way.
They didn't issue personal invitations to the cab drivers throughout London.
The word goes out, probably embossed in gold leaf, to political leaders, foreign heads of state,
people powerful and high up on the social ladder.
But what does God do?
He announces the birth of the king.
He announces the birth of his own son to shepherds.
Now, shepherding was actually the first profession named in the Bible.
And throughout the history of Israel, it was a respectable calling.
But by the time we get to Jesus' time, shepherding had fallen out of respect.
Shepherding had become seen as a class of wild people, unclean peasants, if you will.
And let's be honest, being a shepherd was lonely, wearisome, often boring, tedious, sometimes dangerous.
Gave them a lot of contact with sheep, not a lot of exposure to people.
So you can imagine their manners deteriorating as they work hard at this profession.
They had lots of time on their hands.
That's why many of them learned to play instruments, sit out in the field and play the flute or the harp or something like that.
Lots of time to kill, not a lot of time with people.
Let's be honest.
It's not the kind of person you want your daughter to marry, okay?
That's what shepherds were like.
They didn't have a nine-to-five job, two kids, two car garage, fence with a swing in the backyard.
No, these were wanderers, drifters, even characterized by some as thieves.
You can't trust the shepherds.
You don't trust these folks.
You don't want them counting your offering.
Do you know what I mean?
Uneducated, unsophisticated people.
Now step back for a minute.
Imagine you're God.
You want to announce the most amazing thing.
You need to go to the media.
You need to go to the powerful people.
Let the word be known.
No.
No, they told, God told shepherds.
The question is, why?
why would God announce the birth of the king to shepherds there's a clue in first corinthians
chapter one paul writes remember dear brothers and sisters that few of you were wise in the
world's eyes or powerful or wealthy when god called you instead god deliberately chose things
the world considers foolish
in order to shame those
who think they are wise.
And he chose those who are powerless
to shame those who are powerful.
And God chose things despised by the world,
things counted as nothing at all,
and used them to bring nothing
what the world considers is important
so that no one can ever boast
in the presence of God.
God alone made it possible
for you to be in Christ Jesus
For our benefit, God made Christ to be wisdom itself.
He is the one who made us acceptable to God.
He made us pure and holy, and he gave himself to purchase our freedom.
As the scriptures say, the person who wishes to boast should boast only of what the Lord has done.
God gave the message to the lowest.
Why?
Because God doesn't play favorites.
Isn't that good news?
God doesn't play favorites.
He gave the greatest message to the gang of outcasts.
God works with the unconventional.
God does the surprising.
God works with shepherds and with pastors and moms and dads
and business leaders and engineers and salespeople and store stockers
and on and on and on.
God works with all of us.
And no matter what class or color or race or region that you come from, God loves you and wants to spread his life-giving message through you.
God works in mysterious ways.
I read a story this week that touched my heart deeply about a woman that was shamed and brought closer to God by someone that the world would completely overlook.
And so she writes this.
She says,
We were the only family with children in the restaurant.
I sat Eric in a high chair and noticed everyone was quietly eating and talking.
And suddenly Eric squealed with glee and he said,
Hi there!
And he wiggled and he giggled with merriment at a man with a tattered rag of a coat
and dirty and greasy and worn.
His pants were baggy with a zipper at half-mast,
and his toes poked out of the would-be shoes.
His shirt was dirty, and his hair was uncombed and unwashed.
His whiskers were not quite a beard,
and varicose charted a complex map across his nose.
We were too far to smell him, but I'm sure he smelled.
His hands waved at my baby.
Hi there, baby. Hi there, big boy.
I see you, buster.
The man said to Eric, and my husband and I didn't know what to do.
And Eric continued to laugh and answer, hi, hi there.
Well, our meal finally came, and the drunken geezer began shouting across the room, hey,
do you know patty cake?
Do you know peekaboo?
Hey, look, he knows peekaboo.
No one thought the man was cute.
My husband and I were embarrassed and Eric, on the other hand, was just running through
his repertoire of tricks and all admired by this gentleman.
We finally got through the meal.
My husband went to pay and Eric and I headed for the door, but the old man was poised between
me and the door.
And I uttered a prayer, Lord, just let me get out of here before he speaks to me or
to Eric.
As I drew close to the man, I turned my back,
trying to kind of sidestep him
and even avoid the very air that he might be breathing.
And as I did, Eric leaned over my arm
and reaching with both arms in a baby's kind of that pick-me-up position.
And before I could stop him,
Eric had propelled himself from my arms into the man's arms.
And Eric, in an act of total trust, of love and submission,
he laid his tiny head upon the ragged man's shoulders.
And the man's eyes closed, and I saw tears hover beneath his lashes.
And his aged hands, full of grime and pain and hard labor,
they gently, so gently, cradled my baby's bottom and stroked his back.
and the old man rocked and cradled Eric in his arms for a moment
and then his eyes opened
and he sat squarely on my eyes
and he said in a firm commanding voice
you take care of this baby
and somehow I managed
I will
from a throat that contained a stone
and I received my baby and the man said
God bless you ma'am
you've given me my Christmas gift
and I ran to the car
My husband wondered why I was crying and saying,
My God, my God, forgive me.
Because the ragged old man had willingly reminded me
to enter the kingdom of God we must become as little children.
God can use the most unlikely of people
to teach us the most profound truths about life.
He can do the same for you, the same for me.
Here he used the shepherds.
He used the shepherds to teach us something.
And what did those shepherds do?
The outcasts, what did they do?
After they heard the message, they took a journey.
And what did they do?
They did two things.
The shepherds praised and proclaimed.
They praised God and they proclaimed the message.
In other words, they worshiped and they witnessed after experiencing God.
They made that journey from the countryside into town to see the baby, and they gave him homage.
It says they knelt at the manger.
And after worshiping and giving God praise, they went out to witness.
It says they went out to proclaim.
They went, so to speak, to tell it on the mountain that Jesus Christ is born.
this rough, ragtag group of social outcasts,
these men were the first evangelists.
Isn't that amazing?
The first evangelists were the ragtag social outcasts, the shepherds.
Shepherds realized they were important to God.
The angel of the Lord came to the people who were outcasts.
They realized they were important to God.
And they went to worship.
They gave God everything.
They gave Him their total homage.
And from their worship, they went to tell the world.
Friends, that's our journey as well.
We are to respond how to God.
When God gets a hold of us, we're to respond, number one, in worship.
And from our worship comes our witness.
As God teaches us who He is, we're overwhelmed and we tell the world
that the message is not just for us, but for everyone who would believe.
And if he can use shepherds, he can certainly use all of you, all of us.
We tell the world what?
We tell the world that our sins can be forgiven.
We tell the world that God loves us.
We tell the world that we can have a new start in life
and that we can know God and enjoy him forever.
That's what we tell the world.
That's the message of Christmas.
Another way to understand this message is in this great story.
It was a preacher's family setting up the nativity scene in the front yard.
And all of them were carrying out those little statues to put in the scene.
You know, Mary and Joseph and the manger and the baby.
And you've got the angels and the shepherds and all the barnyard animals.
The pastor says a little Scotty came out carrying his favorite toy.
the figure of the fierce Tyrannosaurus rex,
king of the dinosaurs.
It was one of those plastic figurines,
the kind that you inflate, the kind that blow up.
And I imagine it being a few feet high
with the little arms sticking out and the big teeth.
You can imagine what it looks like.
And in comparison, he says, to the other figurines,
it was rather ominous, rather overpowering,
standing tall above the rest of the scene.
And dad kept saying, Scotty, you've got to take that back in the house.
It doesn't belong there.
Dinosaurs, you see, son, existed thousands of years beforehand.
It doesn't make sense to be in the nativity scene.
But he insisted.
Come on, dad.
Let the dinosaur be part of it.
And after insisting and probably making a scene there on the driveway, dad backed down.
And so they stood back.
and there's that fierce dinosaur standing hovering over the entire nativity scene
and then dad had this insight he said maybe that dinosaur says more than we realize
because for over each of us is a menacing character that threatens to rob us of all of our joy and our
peace and our cheer but christmas reminds us the baby in the manger is stronger than all the
dinosaurs in our lives. And God has given us the victory through Jesus Christ, the one in the
manger. And so, yes, the dinosaur belongs, but the baby triumphs. That's the message of Christmas.
Molly Brown said, Christmas is love, tugging men's and women's hearts back to God with a powerful
grip of a tiny hand
reaching out from the bed of straw
no matter what dinosaur
might be over it
that little baby
has the power to conquer
and that's the message
friends do you believe it
do you live it
and will you share it
for it is the greatest news in the world
that God loves you
died for you
has given you his Holy Spirit
wants your worship and wants you to tell
that message to the next person on the block
and in our neighborhood, in our communities, and literally
around the world, that Jesus Christ has come
and we come to adore Him. And so my encouragement to you
is to have a very Merry Christmas. We're now going to stand and we're going to
sing, Go Tell It on the Mountain.
And I want us not just to sing that because it's a quaint song, but because
it is the reality of our hearts this morning, that we are going to worship and pay homage
and tell the world that Jesus Christ has come.
And so now, Dave, would you lead us as we sing, and let's stand together.
