Wow. We have gone from winter to summer immediately. And I'm actually thankful for that. It's good to finally let the boys go out and play in the water, outside, please.
It's been a good weekend. I trust you had a wonderful, safe, and sane holiday, and that you are continuing to enjoy this patriotic weekend.
I'd like to begin just with this idea.
A father was talking with a rather rebellious son,
and he said, every person who lives in these United States is a privileged person.
And the boy answered, well, I disagree.
And the father replied, that's the privilege.
We can disagree.
We have the privilege to speak our mind.
We have freedom of religion, freedom to speak, freedom of the press,
freedom to pursue hopes and dreams we are free in this nation in so many ways
we have these rights because of what our forefathers and mothers did a long time ago
you and i didn't earn the privileges that we enjoy as citizens of this land a poet said this
and very well we eat from orchards we did not plant we drink from wells we did not dig
We reap from fields we did not sow.
We are warmed by fires we did not kindle.
We are sheltered by roofs that we did not build.
And we're blessed by monies we did not give.
Friends, we are in a very blessed situation, a very blessed land, a very blessed people,
a free people, thank the Lord.
A lot of symbols of freedom that we've been seeing throughout the weekend.
there are some other symbols that you might not be aware of
I'd like to bring to your attention
for one, the Alamo in Texas stands
as a symbol of freedom
in Israel, a mountaintop experience
a place called Masada
where years and years ago
960 men and women defied the Roman government
as a symbol to them of freedom
Believe it or not, in Afghanistan today, the presence or absence of hair is a symbol of freedom.
Men shave their beards, women uncover their hair.
To them, those are symbols of great freedom that they now possess.
In Berlin, the symbol is the absence of the wall.
The absence of a dividing wall that has divided that city for years
Is a symbol of freedom
And in our country today, the flag, the liberty bell, the Statue of Liberty, the eagle
Are symbols that we recognize, that point to freedom
We take pride in those symbols
We take pride in the events that led to our freedom
We take pride in the symbols of our liberty
We take pride in the reality of our religious and political and personal freedom.
But with all those symbols, for all those symbols of freedom throughout the world,
there is one symbol that stands far above the rest, far above a flag or a bell, a mountaintop or a wall.
A symbol of freedom is the cross of Jesus Christ.
That is the ultimate symbol of freedom
for peoples in this land and in lands around the globe.
It's the symbol of freedom from sin, from death.
It represents the ultimate sacrifice by God
to free us for eternity.
I share with you Romans chapter 6.
Beginning verse 17, Paul writes,
Thank God, once you were slaves of sin, but now you have obeyed with all your heart the new teaching God has given you.
Now you are free from sin, your old master, and you have become slaves to your new master, righteousness.
I speak this way using illustration of slaves and masters because it's easy to understand.
Before, you let yourselves be slaves of impurity and lawlessness.
Now you must choose to be slaves of righteousness, so that you will become holy.
In those days when you were slaves of sin, you weren't concerned with doing what was right.
And what was the result? It was not good.
Since now you are ashamed of the things you used to do, things that end in eternal doom.
but now you are free from the power of sin
and have become slaves of God.
Now you do those things that lead to holiness
that result in eternal life
for the wages of sin is death
but the free gift of God is eternal life
through Jesus Christ our Lord.
That is worthy of an amen in our hearts.
Amen.
We're finishing our series of kingdom living.
And now we're seeing how this dimension of our faith, our freedom, what it really looks like, how we can experience it.
Many think today they are free.
After all, the symbols of our land point to our freedom.
And at one level, we are free.
We're free to travel.
We're free to pursue happiness.
We're free to believe what we want.
But there's a freedom that's deeper than that.
A freedom that's freedom from our sin, freedom from our broken nature, freedom from our sickness in our souls,
freedom from the torment of spiritual beings in the spiritual realm.
There's freedom, friends, this morning.
Our culture doesn't talk about sin much today.
In fact, the whole idea of sin the world thinks is cute or passe.
We don't want to acknowledge that there are boundaries.
We don't like the idea of limits to freedom.
But friends, in the spiritual realm, there are boundaries.
There are ultimate rights and wrongs.
In fact, in the evangelical church, we don't talk about the spiritual realm much at all.
But there are forces in the spiritual realm that also oppress and torment.
And Jesus knew about it and dealt with it.
He knew those realities were there.
And he proclaimed freedom for those who were in him from those realities.
And regarding sin, sin is tricky.
Sin is something that can ensnare us and we become unaware of our own bondage.
We think we're free, but we're not.
And when we're in bondage, we are good at minimizing our enslavement.
We think, well, a few more adjustments, a little more of this, a little more of that,
and everything's going to be fine, but it's not true.
What's true is that evil can become a habit,
and a habit that's hard to break, and it becomes an enslaving experience.
We can be a slave to hatred or hostility, rage.
We can be enslaved to those experiences.
We can be a slave to our pride.
In our arrogance, we can indulge in prejudice and bigotry
because we think we're better than others.
In our self-importance,
we enjoy telling somebody when they're wrong
to elevate ourselves.
We can be a slave to gossip.
We can be a slave to the misuse of our sexuality.
We can be a slave to relationships that damage us.
Adultery, premarital sex, and so on.
We can be a slave to materialism.
We've got to buy one more thing,
and then we'll be satisfied.
Just one more this, one more that, but we're never satisfied.
We're enslaved, and all that misuse of freedom is the grip of sin in our lives.
It gradually takes root, and it binds us up.
We need a Savior.
We need God Himself to intervene, which is what He did in Jesus Christ.
Take a look at John chapter 8.
Jesus said to the people who believed in him,
You are truly my disciples if you keep obeying my teachings,
and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free.
But we are descendants of Abraham, they said.
We've never been slaves to anyone on earth.
What do you mean, set free?
And Jesus replied,
I assure you that everyone who sins is a slave of sin.
A slave is not a permanent member of the family,
but a son is part of the family forever.
So if the Son sets you free,
you will indeed be free.
Praise the Lord for that.
Freedom in Christ.
I'd like to share three points with you.
Bruce Milne helped me with this.
Great theologian and pastor.
Very great insight on this passage.
Freedom in Christ, number one, is a gift.
It's a gift.
Freedom in Christ does not come from our background.
It doesn't come from our nationality, come from our pedigree.
It's a gift.
Freedom in Christ is given personally by Jesus himself to us.
In this narrative, the Jews thought that their history,
their nationality qualified them to be implicitly part of God's plan.
And they weren't slaves of anyone.
But Jesus says, if you disobey God, you're already a slave of your broken nature.
You already are a slave of sin.
And you need a Savior.
And Jesus gives that gift to us, to anyone that receives it.
A freedom from ourselves.
It's freedom in Christ.
The second point I would like just to point out is that it's eternal.
When you accept Jesus Christ as the Lord, the director, the leader of your life,
when you accept what he did on the cross, you become a child of God.
And you're part of God's family.
And when you're part of God's family, as Jesus lives forever, so shall you.
and you're free from yourself, from your sin, from your torment forever.
I can't think of a better gift than to have freedom now and forever.
Oh, it's great news.
It's great news.
Fourth of July is good news for our country,
but this news is even better, even better.
Freedom in Christ finally is expressed in obedience.
I love what the great church reformer
Martin Luther said and taught
he taught and I believe he's right
that human beings were made to serve
we were not made to just have unbridled freedom
we were made to serve
he described it this way
the human will he described it
is like a horse
and we have a choice
who's going to ride
Either the Lord or the enemy himself.
That's it.
Two choices.
God is riding this horse or the devil is riding this horse.
But we're going to have somebody control us.
We're going to serve somebody.
And if we're serving ourselves, we're serving the enemy anyway.
We were built, though, created to serve.
The question is, who are we serving?
Are we serving sin or God?
Our freedom in Christ that Jesus gives us frees us to serve God.
And when you serve God, then you find what you were made for, created for.
Pieces fit together.
You find great joy and peace in serving God.
This whole idea in our country and contemporary philosophy that to be totally radically free,
to be free of any constraints
that somehow that's freedom.
Friends, that's not freedom.
That's lost.
We're created to serve God.
Freedom is not the freedom to do as we want,
but the freedom from being controlled by our sin
that will then enslave us.
Real freedom is freedom in Christ to serve God.
When you receive God's freedom,
you become a loving, obedient child in His family.
And when we're obedient children in His family,
when we do what Jesus our Master says to do,
we take into our hearts and actions His Word to us.
We experience His power in our lives.
And that experience and knowledge of God sets us free.
And then we're free to serve God more fully.
And serving Christ is true freedom.
Don't stop.
My encouragement to you is don't stop taking in God's Word.
Don't stop being obedient to Jesus.
Don't stop allowing the Spirit of God to fill you up
that you might be serving the Lord where true freedom is found.
Don't stop.
A little boy was watching his mother in the bathroom,
and she was gently rubbing cold cream on her face.
And he said, Mommy, why are you rubbing that cream on your face?
He asked.
And she said, To be more beautiful, said his mom.
and a few minutes later she starts taking it off and he said what's the matter are you giving up
jesus doesn't want us to give up he wants us to walk in obedience each and every day
with the power of the spirit flowing in our lives and as we serve in our obedient we'll find
freedom to do more than what god calls us to do to have more boldness to serve him to have more
power to live in freedom in Christ. Friends, when you're obedient to Christ, when you don't give up,
when you step each and every day, one foot in front of the other, you're free to love instead
of hate. You find freedom to be joyous in the midst of sorrow. You'll find freedom to have peace
even in the midst of conflict you'll be free to wait with god when others might be moved by
circumstance you're free to listen to god you find yourself free to be kind when others hurt
when others hurt you you find freedom to do good when others do evil you have freedom to have
Christ be your anchor when others have nothing to trust in nothing to believe in nothing to root
their lives you have the freedom to have the God of the universe as your anchor you have freedom
to let Christ lead you in daily steps of righteousness and holiness you have freedom
from yourself from wrongful passions and desires that's good news we're free to rise above our sin
we're free to live a holy life we're free to finally choose right we're free to choose the
best we're free to keep on growing we're free to reach the potential for which god has designed us
that's the freedom we receive in christ does that warm your hearts this morning i hope so
it gets me all excited to think about all those benefits of knowing christ i love my freedom in
this country but even in the midst of political tyranny we still can enjoy these freedoms that's
why the church of jesus christ flourishes even under persecution because the freedom in christ
is experienced at these incredibly deep powerful levels in our souls i thank god for our free
nation but i thank god more for my freedom in christ i thank him every day that these are the
kind of lifestyle we can experience oh thank you lord it's great to have freedom in our nation but
most important we thank god for true freedom in jesus christ it's in him we really find it
we're going to experience some more symbols of freedom in just a moment but i'd like for us to
prepare our hearts for a moment as we come and take communion i'd like for us just to sing this
song and David's going to lead us for a moment but like for us just as we prepare to pray would
you join me gracious God thank you for the freedom that you give us freedom from our broken selves
freedom from our selfishness freedom to be who you call us to be holy righteous full of love
full of mercy, patient, kind.
Lord, thank you that these become realities
because of our freedom in Christ.
And so, Lord, as we prepare our hearts
to commune with you,
I pray that your spirit would pour out
and wash amongst us,
nourish our thirsty souls,
meet us right where we are.
And whether we need some encouragement
or conviction or just some consolation,
may you meet us here,
meet us at the table,
And we understand that you gave up your freedom, Jesus,
that we might obtain ours forever.
You gave up so much to come to this earth.
Thank you that you limited yourself into a body.
You gave up your life that we might have it forever.
That's how much you love us.
That's the amazing love we've sung about.
Lord, I pray that we would understand,
not only in our heads, but in our hearts, in our lives,
how much you really love us
and at this time, this freedom weekend
as we take communion
we really experience personal
freedom this morning
so Lord prepare our hearts
to commune with you
I pray if we need to confess
we confess, if we need just
to open our lives to you we do that
wherever we are
make us ready
to have a really deep encounter with you
thank you by the cross
and the blood that was shed that we can
know you personally, intimately
and that you can know us
and we can know you forever.
Lord, there's nothing like that.
May we never take that kind of freedom for granted
and may we enjoy it each and every day.
Come, Holy Spirit.
Have your way with us.
