Church, how are you this morning? I trust you are well. The Lord is good all the time. That's right, all the time.
Surfing was great yesterday. I just want to share a story. We get out in the water, and Reuben, he's not here now, I can tell this.
Reuben is such the evangelist. Even with his neck up to here, he's reaching out to students.
Hey, we're teaching surfing over here.
We've got a Bible study.
You come over to that group and come with us.
And these kids, oh, yeah, okay, we'll check it out.
We're going to be here every week.
You just come.
He's out sharing Jesus with a surf pounding over his head.
That's missions.
And I was just so privileged to be out there with him and being a part of that.
That's a church and a creative ministry opportunity.
When the surf is coming over your head, you talk about Jesus.
Isn't that like life, though?
Boy, when things are coming in, Jesus, I need you.
Oh, it was a great time.
Well, friends, do we dare to dream again?
That's our theme and series this summer.
What dreams has God put into your head?
What does he want to do with your life?
And as we saw last week, the question is, what holds you back?
Is there a painful past that holds you back from being all that God wants you to be?
and how can we put that aside and give that to the Lord
that we might accomplish what He has challenged us to do and be about.
Well, dreams.
My encouragement this summer is pursue those dreams that God has given.
But there is one tricky thing about dreams.
Dreams do fade.
Dreams, by definition, are not yet reality.
They are an idea of a preferred reality,
but they do not yet exist.
tangibly. And dreams can be thwarted, dreams can be derailed, or they simply can fade away
without attention. The one tricky thing about God-given dreams is that sometimes they're so
large they take a lot of time, longer than a week or a month or even a year. And if you don't stay
focused on the dream, it can easily fade. Imagine Abraham being told at a ripe age that they would
become, he and his wife, would be a great nation. And all he saw were two people way past child
rearing. But the realization of that dream took years and years. What dreams has God filled your
head? Perhaps you're thinking about sharing Christ in the marketplace and being trained
to exercise the gift that you know is deep inside of you.
But friends, that won't just start simply tomorrow morning.
It may take time and training to develop that.
It doesn't happen overnight.
If your goal is to rear godly children,
that may take decades.
It doesn't happen overnight.
Using your spiritual gift for ministry fruitfulness
may take several years to exercise and experience it.
serving the poor as we talked about again these things don't take place immediately overnight
dreams can take a long time to fulfill and we can lose our laser-like focus and when the focus is
gone all we see is a blur god-sized dreams are difficult sometimes to pursue because you need
some tangible evidence that God is working as time marches on. We need to be reminded that God
is there working with us. We need to be reminded that God cares about our lives. We need to be
reminded that God has not forgotten us as time marches on. There's a great story in 1 Samuel 16
where David is chosen to be the king of Israel.
He was given the dream of someday becoming the king.
But from that idea to the reality,
there were many obstacles, many challenges, and much time.
But he pursued that dream because he saw God's hand at work in David's life.
And so from 1 Samuel 16, the Bible says,
Finally the Lord said to Samuel, You have mourned long enough for Saul. I have rejected him as king
of Israel. Now fill your horn with olive oil and go to Bethlehem. Find a man named Jesse who lives
there, for I have selected one of his sons to be my new king. When they arrived, Samuel took one
look at Eliab and thought surely this is the Lord's anointed but the Lord said to Samuel
don't judge by his appearance or height for I have rejected him the Lord doesn't make decisions
the way you do people judge by outward appearance but the Lord looks at a person's thoughts and
intentions then Jesse told his son Abinadab to step forward and walk in front of Samuel
But Samuel said, This is not the one the Lord has chosen.
Next, Jesse summoned Shammah.
But Samuel said, Neither is this one the Lord has chosen.
In the same way, all seven of Jesse's sons were presented to Samuel.
But Samuel said to Jesse, The Lord has not chosen any of these.
Then Samuel asked, Are these all the sons you have?
Well, there is still the youngest, Jesse replied.
But he's out in the fields watching the sheep.
Oh, send for him at once, Samuel said.
We will not sit down to eat until he arrives.
So Jesse sent for him.
He was ruddy and handsome with pleasant eyes.
And the Lord said, This is the one.
Anoint him.
And as David stood there among his brothers,
Samuel took the olive oil he had brought and poured it on David's head.
And the Spirit of the Lord came mightily upon him from that day on.
and then samuel returned to ramah little boy anointed with oil given a vision for his life
he would one day be the king and as time marches on david begins a journey into the life of king
saul and his court invited to the palace plays the heart for the distraught king
But over time, as David serves in the court, his popularity begins to grow.
In fact, his popularity grows, and the popularity of King Saul's decreases,
and the King Saul becomes insanely jealous of David and the Lord's hand on his life.
And literally, Saul begins to plot to take David's life.
literally throwing spears to pin him to the wall that's jealousy that's a rage of jealousy this man
is insane and going after the lord's anointed there's a vision to be king but can you imagine
escaping spears wondering if you'll make it at all saul began a pursuit of david that led to
chases in the desert, his men hiding in the wilderness, an approaching army, and amidst all
that fear and running and chasing, it would be very easy for David to lose his grip on the dream
of becoming the king. Can you imagine being chased through the countryside by armies?
You'd lose perhaps the vision. He didn't let it die though, and here's why. Because God showed him
he was alive in David's life. In our world, when we're trying to chase dreams for God, the reality
is when we've got to pay the bills and the stresses of the finances and the checkbook each and every
week, who has time to pursue dreams for God when we're just trying to get through life, right? The
vision becomes a blur. How do you focus on the dream when you're up to here in diapers? Been there.
You've been there, some of you.
How do you pursue the Lord's vision
when you're in conflict with your mate
each and every day?
How do you see the dream
when the conflict is in your home every day?
How do you realize God's leading
when lives are in chaos each and every day?
The way to keep the dream focused, friends,
is to see God's present involvement
in our lives,
even in the smallest of ways.
To see that He is still there, that He's still with you.
He hasn't forgotten you.
The dream is still alive.
We often want to see God in the sensational.
We want to see Him right in the stars and the sky and speak our name.
We want to see big things to know God is there.
But you know, God lives in the mundane with us as well.
He's there every day.
We want the big fireworks, but he wants to meet us in our lives every day.
When we were building this facility in the last few years,
the big dream of a state-of-the-art ministry campus was out there.
But I'll be honest, and I'm speaking, I believe, for Sam Allen as well.
The mundane issues like plumbing fixtures and mold remediation and conduit and nuts and bolts,
that's what this thing was like every day and every day there were more problems and more issues and
we can't do this you can't do that and what about this and that's going to cost more what about and
so forth and the dream was hard to stay focused on in the mundane in the problems in the issues
of the dust and the dirt and the noise remember the noise carol remembers the noise and there
were some days we thought, what are we doing? Let's just stop this. This is crazy. But you know, God was
still in the midst of that project, and over time, every electrical socket, every 2x4, every sheet
rock panel, it all began to add up to the dream, and it was realized. But God had to take us through
all the mundane every day for a long time to get to the product at the end. And it was in seeing God
move into little things and little surprises and how he'd meet us there and give us a burst of
creativity to solve problems that we knew he was still with us, the dream was still alive.
Even though for some of us it got fuzzy at times. That's how it works sometimes. How do we learn to
look for God? That's the key. How do we learn to look for him in the middle of the mundane on the
way to the dream. We'll call it a daily God hunt. We're going to hunt for God. We're going to learn
to see Him in the everyday to know that He's with us in the big dream. The first one is answers to
prayer. It's important to take note mentally and even written down all the specific answers to
prayer. I'm not talking about just the bless me Lord kind of prayers. We're talking about the
specific God take care of this need kind of prayers. And then when he does, you know he's
still with you. Think of the times you've asked for a specific healing and he met that need or
specifically met a job issue, helped solve
a family matter, a ministry victory, and on and
on. We have to take note on our God
hunt of the answers to prayer. As we've studied
sometimes God says no, sometimes He'll
say slow, sometimes God says grow,
and sometimes He even says go and answers, but He
always answers in some way can we take note of when he's answering our prayers what that looks
like so number one daily god hunt is to look for answers to prayer number two is the evidence of
god's care in our lives look around in your life and think of the times when god has met needs
in your life. Taking care of that rent problem
when things were tight. Met that mortgage when there was a
challenge. Did he get the car fixed in a miraculous way?
Did he bring the mechanic along the road at just the right moment? Did he bring
your friend over to reboot your computer when it crashed at just the right moment
to let you know that he loves you? You're not out there alone.
You get the idea. Those experiences
of looking for the evidence of His care.
Speak to us and let us know that God is still with us
and helping us pursue the big picture dreams for our lives.
The third one is the fun one,
the unusual timing and linkage, as it's termed,
where things just line up and connections are made
that only God can do.
Those incredible coincidences that you realize
are the hand of God in your life.
John Ingram and I met at Biola a few days ago for lunch.
I wanted to see where he works
at the Rosemead School of Psychology,
and I just went over to spend some time.
We met at the Eagle's Nest,
and in the matter of 20 minutes,
I saw all of our church members
who attend there, work there, you name it,
or just dropped onto campus that day.
I ran into all kinds of people
that I had seen and met over the years,
all in 20 minutes and i said god there's no way unless you just lined them up boom boom boom to
meet with me and god in the midst of that spoke to me as i drove back that he wants us to be doing
some more linkage with that campus there's such great resources and a mutually beneficial
relationship that can go both ways and i said lord you're moving aren't you because what are
the chances I'd run into the coach and these professors and these students and these resident
deans and these all kinds of folks that are part of our fellowship here. That doesn't happen like
that. Coincidence or God moving in our lives? I'll go with God. We're for help to do His work.
When He calls you to something, a particular project, a specific opportunity to share or to
witness or to help somebody, and you receive divine help at that right moment, you know He's
working with you. You ever been sharing with somebody, and you just think, God, I just need
the right words right now to say that will touch their heart, and you ask God in that moment, and
bang, He gives you the right word that unlocks the heart. God is there to give you help at the right
time, right? Amen. You know you have to go in and do something heavy in ministry, and you just need
strength and wisdom, and you pray, and God meets you there that very day. Think of those times when
He has met you for ministry, and you realize He's there in your life pursuing the dreams.
A very powerful experience happened when I and Robin, a long time ago, led a trip of college
students to Brazil to do missions and ministry. Twenty-five college students, a number of other
adults. Flown down to Rio de Janeiro, drove five hours by bus into a city of about 300,000 people
where some missionaries from the church we were working with were already planted for many years.
By morning, it was Bible study. By afternoon, it was door-to-door evangelism in the communities.
By evening, it was preaching and sharing and doing music in churches and rallies and VBS.
We worked from sunup to sundown, and I will never forget moving along the street with
my translator beside me and knocking on the doors of these little homes and having spiritists
and animists and people that are tapped into dark spiritual forces meet us at the door.
And I said, Dear God, I need your power right now.
This is warfare time.
May you move in my life.
And as we entered those homes, literally the Spirit of God moved in my life
and the person there would react to the Spirit of God in us.
And sometimes their eyes would roll back and they would flail and they would move back around.
We were having cosmic warfare right in that place and I'm asking God to move through me.
And He did.
And sometimes those people were delivered and healed because God is moving in us.
there's no way we could have done that stuff
without asking God to move
at those moments
and that has spoken to me ever since
that was 15, 18 years ago
but those moments are etched in my mind
of his power in my life
at that very moment
and it encourages me that he's with me
and friends that stuff is not just for
Rio and South Equator
God moves today
and redeems lives
in the midst of our community today
and we can call on his power for ministry and for power for help.
That's how we know he's moving in our lives.
David learned that God was with him as well while being chased all over the countryside.
It's a great passage.
Saul returned from fighting the Philistines.
He was told that David had gone into the wilderness of En Gedi,
so Saul chose 3,000 special troops from throughout Israel
and went to search for David and his men near the rocks.
of the wild goats. At the place where the road passes some sheepfold, Saul went in a cave to
relieve himself. But as it happened, David and his men were hiding in that very cave.
Now's your opportunity, David's men whispered to him. Today is the day the Lord was talking about
when he said, I will certainly put Saul into your power to do with as you wish. And then David crept
forward and cut off a piece of Saul's robe. But then David's conscience began bothering him
because he had cut Saul's robe. The Lord knows I shouldn't have done it, he said to his men.
It's a serious thing to attack the Lord's anointed one, for the Lord himself has chosen him.
So David sharply rebuked his men and did not let them kill Saul. And after Saul left the cave and
gone on his way david came out and shouted after him my lord the king and when saul looked around
david bowed low before him then he shouted to saul why do you listen to the people who say
i'm trying to harm you this very day you can see with your own eyes it isn't true for the lord
placed you at my mercy back there in the cave and some of my men told me to kill you but i spared you
For I said, I will never harm him. He is the Lord's anointed.
Look, my father, at what I have in my hand.
It's a piece of your robe.
I cut it off, but I didn't kill you.
This proves that I'm not trying to harm you and that I have not sinned against you,
even though you've been hunting me to kill me.
The Lord will decide between us.
Perhaps the Lord will punish you for what you are trying to do to me,
but I will never harm you.
As that old proverb says,
from evil people come evil deeds.
So you can be sure I will never harm you.
Who is the king of Israel trying to catch anyway?
Should he spend his time chasing one
who is worthless as a dead dog or a flea?
May the Lord judge which of us is right
and punish the guilty one.
He is my advocate
and he will rescue me from your power.
David, outnumbered five to one, hiding in a cave,
when lo and behold, nature calls for the king of Israel.
And as he goes in and probably lays down his robe and takes care of business,
David sneaks up and cuts off a piece of that cloak.
Now that's a big deal in that culture, in that day and age,
to grasp the hem of a garment symbolized allegiance and faithfulness.
At the same time, to touch a person of such authority was considered disrespectful and even mutinous.
And so that tension in David produces remorse for what he did.
But through the event, through Saul coming into that very cave,
David realizes God's faithfulness to him.
That God is still with David.
God has not forgotten about David.
God has not forgotten about the dream.
God is still working in this dream in David's life.
How has God been present in your life?
Can you see Him at work within you?
Can you see Him at work in the circumstances of your life?
In amazing timing, in amazing linking of events,
perhaps in miraculous intervention.
How has He been present in your life?
Well, here's how we make this work.
Here's how we answer these questions.
Number one, we become intentional about seeing God's involvement in our lives.
It's one thing to think about these things theoretically and go home and say,
that was nice.
It's another to be very intentional and look, go on that God hunt and find him.
Have you noticed that we find what we're looking for?
If you buy a new car, suddenly you notice all the same cars, don't you?
Boy, they're everywhere.
Hey, that's the green one.
Hey, that's the blue one.
You get a new haircut, a little insecure, you want to make sure you find all those who
have the same haircut.
You find them, don't you?
We find what we're looking for.
We train our eyes and are intentional to see around us.
The same is true about God.
we can train ourselves to see Him in the very mundane of our lives
to encourage us that He still has that dream alive for us.
So my encouragement is to make it a habit
to be aware how God is answering prayer.
Make it a habit to notice how He answers your call for help in ministry.
Make it a habit of noticing how He takes care of you.
Make it a habit of noticing how He works in amazing timing in your life.
Make it a habit.
Be intentional and look and discover God at work in your life.
And the second and final practical reality you can embark on is simply record.
It's one thing to notice.
It's another thing to record His present involvement in your life.
This is great for those who journal.
because if you journal, you can look back and see God moving
as you write about those experiences today.
They become a record, a legacy of God's power in your life.
David and Karen Maines in the book, The God Hunt,
they write it this way.
They say, begin the God hunt by looking back.
Attempt to remember the times when you were convinced
you found evidence of God's presence.
That supernatural encounter with God was startlingly real at the time.
A miraculous healing took place in your extended family that people talk about to this day.
You recall those religious meetings where the room was filled with the power of the Holy Spirit.
Begin, they say, by thinking, when I was a child, were there any times when I sensed that God was near to me?
Write that down. Jot down the details. Make the memory clear.
and then start from there
and move all the way up to today.
That your journal then begins now today
and you take note of these instances
where God moves.
And that keeps the vision clear
that He's with you,
that He wants to fulfill those dreams
He's been placing in your heart.
He hasn't abandoned you.
David being chased all over the countryside.
Spears thrown at him.
He could have easily said,
this is ridiculous.
it's over I refuse to believe but God showed him every time in those difficult circumstances he
still had his life in his hands God was working out a purpose and God was with him and church he
is with you each and every day the Bible says he'll never leave you nor forsake you he's with
you every day but I want you to notice to encourage you so it's more than just an idea
it's reality that you see a testimony that you can write down to encourage you he's got big
dreams for you brothers and sisters he wants to do great and mighty things through you don't let
the dream die don't let it fade don't let the circumstances of life get you down may you see
God moving in your life
in a variety of ways.
And may that minister to
you as He takes
you where He wants you to be.
Let's pray. Father,
