The speaker quotes Scripture, tells stories, and uses proper punctuation, capitalization,
looking for olives and, you know, the sweet gherkins and stuff,
and flip-flopping around in the Ralphs.
And I thought, this is fun.
This is why we live here.
Praise God.
Because my buddy back east is always trying to get me to move to Ohio,
and I always ask him, hey, Steve, what's temperature outside?
He goes, oh, it's, you know, 4.
And I go, yeah, it's about 84 here, pal, so stick it in your ear.
Anyway, we have a great relationship.
We can say stuff like that.
And I am grateful that I'm here.
I'm grateful to be in this church.
I'm grateful to have the friends and the family that I do, and I've been thinking about gratitude
a lot as we move into Thanksgiving. And I want to start by just sharing
about a gentleman that you may have heard of. He was
lived in from 1865 to 1936.
He was English and born in Bombay, India. He wrote
poetry and the author of Captain Courageous, How the
Leopard Got His Spots, and you all know this from Disney, The Jungle Books.
Who is he?
Rudyard Kipling.
Now, Kipling's writings made him famous.
And there was a gentleman newspaper reporter who said,
Mr. Kipling, I have just calculated the money that you make and so forth,
and I figure that you're making about $100 per word.
That's pretty good money, especially in that day and age.
And so the reporter pulled out a $100 bill and said,
well, Mr. Kipling, why don't you give me one of those $100 words?
At which point Mr. Kipling took the $100 bill, put it in his pocket, and said, thanks.
But that word is a $100 word, isn't it?
It's a million-dollar word because it says so much.
And when it's not said, that also says so much.
You can hurt people by keeping thanks back.
and you can bless people in so many innumerable ways by saying thanks.
I have to confess, writing this message, I was really convicted
because I don't say thanks enough to the people around me either.
I tend to just go from item to item, issue to issue, event to event, and so I apologize.
I tend to be a steamroller and I need to say thanks.
So I'm convicted as I preach and share as well.
Well, moving into Thanksgiving season, I want us to think about our attitude of gratitude.
Do we have that embedded in our souls?
And there's one way to evaluate that and to be challenged by that,
and it comes from a drama between Jesus and some leprous men that he encounters.
And I want us to think about our own degree of gratitude as we look at this.
From Luke chapter 17, it's on the screen behind me.
As Jesus continued on toward Jerusalem, he reached the border between Galilee and Samaria.
And as he entered a village there, ten lepers stood at a distance crying out,
Jesus, Master, have mercy on us.
He looked at them and he said, go, show yourselves to the priests.
And as they went, the leprosy disappeared.
Now one of them, when he saw that he was healed, came back to Jesus shouting,
Praise God, I'm healed!
And he fell face down on the ground at Jesus' feet, thanking him for what he had done.
This man was a Samaritan.
And Jesus asked, Didn't I heal ten men?
Where are the other nine?
Does only the foreigner return to give God the glory?
And Jesus said to the man, Stand up and go.
Your faith has made you well.
Jesus, walking on a border town between Samaria and Galilee.
And like any border community, you find people of both sides intermingled in that community.
And the same is here.
We find Samaritans and Jews.
Yet, of the men who were afflicted, these ten men were separate in religion,
they were separate in culture, but they were united in misery.
For they had leprosy, the most feared illness of the day.
Now, biblically, leprosy can cover a multitude of skin diseases, rashes, sores, scales, eruptions, all kinds of things,
including what we now call Hansen's disease, which is truly leprosy as we know it.
And this is an awful disease because the reality is this.
You lose the feeling in the extremities of your body.
And when you lose the feeling, then you don't know whether you've bruised your hands or feet or your legs and arms.
You can't discern if you're hurting yourself.
You step on a tack and you don't know it.
You can practically cut your finger off and you don't know it.
Now with this disease, when you live with that, your body decays, and you live with stench and sores and secretions, and you live with leprosy in alienation because as you entered a public place, you had to cry out by the law.
you had to say unclean unclean and then everybody gets out of your way all the time a leper was
bereft of human touch a leper was denied dignity children and others always pointing
eww leprosy laughing ridiculing you and certainly scurrying at your sight a leper was denied him
making a living you can't work with leprosy nobody's going to hire you nobody's going to
buy your product. And so you lived by
begging or stealing. It was a life of misery and
loneliness. No touch from a spouse. No time with your
children. No Saturday soccer games. No dance
classes. No piano recitals. No job. No
fulfillment from work. No life in the mainstream of society. You are
condemned to a life of death and death alone. So these
ten men live in this hopeless abandonment. And so desperate times necessitates desperate
measures, and so Samaritans and Jews, separate in religion, separate in culture, united in
misery, for misery loves company. And they come together. And then they see him. He's
the one we've heard can do miracles. He can heal us. Jesus, Master, have mercy on us.
And Jesus hears their cries.
Jesus has compassion on them.
Jesus has such power that by his very words, they're healed.
And they're instructed to journey, to head towards the priests.
Because the priests are the ones who determine who's clean and unclean.
Go to the priests and show yourselves healed.
And the men obey.
Jews and Samaritans alike, they obey Jesus.
They head off toward the priests.
and on the way, they're healed.
Can you believe it?
Just like that.
They're healed.
And only one comes back to give thanks.
I don't know if you realize it or not,
but Friday is the biggest shopping day
for Christmas coming up.
Do you know that?
Are you ready?
I mean, it's here.
30 some odd days, we're tearing packages open.
I'm a restrained person.
However, there have been times
under the Christmas tree
where I have not been restrained.
I mean, nowadays I'm really respectable and, oh, who's this from?
And, oh, I write it down.
I'm the list keeper now.
You know, I keep track of everything it's from.
When I was little, you know, you obsess on the presence under the tree, don't you?
I mean, every day you cruise by the tree and you shake a few things
and you peel that tape back just a bit, just a bit,
and you can see the G.I. Joe or whatever's in there and, oh, yes.
You get so excited.
And it's really hard not to just really obsess on the tree.
And then when finally Christmas morning or Christmas Eve, depending on your tradition,
pell-mell, right, boom, right to the tree, ripping stuff off.
And mom or dad says, oh, and who is that from?
And you dig back to the wrappings, right?
Right?
Oh, here's the tag.
I think that went with this one.
And you send, you know, thank yous to the wrong people and stuff, right?
When you get excited about the gift, it's easy to forget the giver.
It is possible that these ten men on their way, limping toward the priests,
dragging their feet and their arms and struggling,
and suddenly the pus dries up and the scales are placed back where they should be,
and things begin to get healed, and they get excited, and they start running.
And it's possible in their excitement that they go running to hug their children
and to go grab their spouses and to be, I'm healed.
It's possible that they forget completely how they got healed.
I can imagine that.
I've been so excited I've forgotten where the gift came from.
It is possible.
A more cynical approach could be this.
Maybe one wanted to see if the cure was real.
Maybe one wanted to see if it would last.
Maybe one said he'd go see Jesus later.
Maybe one decided he never had leprosy.
It really wasn't what it was.
Maybe one said he would have gotten well anyway.
Maybe one gave the glory to the priests.
Maybe one said, well, Jesus didn't really do anything.
All he did was tell me to go.
Maybe one said any rabbi can do that.
Maybe one said, well, I was getting better anyway.
And those are all just excuses, aren't they?
We sometimes offer excuses like that for our lack of gratitude.
We might be really excited and forget, or we might just be offering excuses.
Either way, only one of them came back, and it was the Samaritan,
the one who's not supposed to connect with the Jews,
the one that was separate in religion and separate in culture.
See, Jews and Samaritans thought the other one was the pig.
And the Samaritan comes back to Jesus, the Jewish rabbi.
It offers thanks.
I think it's instructive that Jesus, the Jew, heals the Samaritan.
I think we can see there, friends, a church being formed of different races, different kinds of people.
And I think for that, we have much to be thankful for.
All races, all languages, all kinds of people are candidates for the love of God.
And I want to say to you this morning, if you've ever been put on the shelf or felt
marginalized by our society, Jesus says, you can become part of my church.
If you've ever felt railroaded by race or color or culture, Jesus says, you can come
and become part of my church.
Because we've all been condemned by our disobedience and our sin.
And then when forgiven by Jesus Christ and empowered by the Holy Spirit, we have much
to be thankful for.
The lepers here were healed of their leprosy.
But the Samaritan came back and he gave God glory.
And Jesus said, your faith has made you well.
That word there, made you well, in the original language has a double meaning.
It means physical healing, but it also has an undercurrent of salvation.
Nine of them were healed of leprosy.
One came back and was made well spiritually.
Your faith has made you well.
The God of the universe healed physically and spiritually as well.
The kingdom of God was at work amongst these ten,
and only one acknowledges that God is at work.
Friends, God is moving in your lives.
Do you give him thanks?
Is your heart filled with grace and gratitude for what God has done in your life?
Do you thank God for your families, your friends, your homes, your goods?
Do you give back to God in the form of the tithe as a thank offering?
Do you regularly make thanking God a part of your prayer life?
There was a Bible scholar named H.A. Ironside who was in a crowded restaurant.
And as he's about to sit down at his place for the meal, a gentleman approaches and says,
May I share the table with you?
And he says, By all means.
And they sit together.
And Ironside puts his head forward and closes his eyes and begins to pray.
And the man says, do you have a headache?
He said, no.
Well, is there something wrong with your food?
No, I was simply thanking God, as I always do before I eat.
And the man said, oh, you're one of those.
And he said, I want you to know I never give thanks.
I earn my money by the sweat of my brow,
and I don't have to give thanks to anybody when I eat.
I just start right in.
And Ironside says, oh, you're like my dog.
That's what he does too. It's funny how sometimes we can just sort of start right into things
and forget to give thanks, can't we? Woof. The reality is that God gives blessing and grace
to everyone on this planet. In fact, we can't even move and live and have our being without God's
very presence giving us life. The Bible says in Matthew 5 45, for he gives his sunlight to both
the evil and the good. He sends rain on the just and the unjust
too. In Luke 6.35, love your enemies
and do good to them, says Jesus. Lend to them.
And don't be concerned what they might not repay. Then your reward from heaven
will be very great. And you'll truly be acting as children
of the Most High. For He is kind to the unthankful and to
those who are wicked. God gives a grace just allowing us
to live and enjoy the earth and enjoy good things in life
whether we know God or not. We who know God ought to be
that much more full of grace and mercy.
People like the Samaritan who worships God with deep reverence and a soul
filling gratitude because we know the author of all good things.
The story is told of two friends bumping into each other on the street
and one is looking very sad on the verge of tears.
The friend asked, what in the world is wrong?
He said, well, let me tell you.
Three weeks ago, my uncle died and left me $40,000.
That's a lot of money.
Well, but two weeks ago, my cousin that I never even knew died and left me $85,000 free and clear.
Sounds like you've been blessed.
Well, he said, you don't understand.
Last week, my great aunt passed away.
I inherited almost a quarter of a million.
Now, this guy's really confused.
Why do you look so glum?
He said, this week, nothing.
You see, that's the problem with receiving something on a regular basis, isn't it?
We get used to it, even if it's a gift.
We take it for granted.
That's very silly, but you get the idea.
That's why it's good for our nation to take some time once a year
and just take stock of what we have and to give thanks.
But why should we stop only once a year?
What about once a month, once a week, or once a day?
I think when we become aware of our blessings and become thankful each and every day,
it keeps our hearts soft and our souls are pointed in the right direction.
I also know that attitude of gratitude is like an oil that lubricates relationships.
It keeps things moving and humming along.
Co-workers, friends, spouses, are you blessing each other and giving thanks for each other?
Do you thank each other for what they've done?
Or do you take it for granted?
And in essence, use other people.
I think the attitude of gratitude is important for our spirituality as well.
For it affects our relationship with God.
You see, the attitude of gratitude will keep us in touch with Him more.
It tunes us into the way things really are.
Without Him, we're nothing.
You can ask yourself, well, is giving thanks all that really important?
I would say yes.
In fact, the Bible says it's one of the evidences that you are actually controlled by the Holy Spirit
is if you have an attitude of thanksgiving in your heart.
Ephesians 5, verse 20 says,
Let the Holy Spirit fill and control you.
Then you will sing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs amongst yourselves,
making music to the Lord in your hearts.
And then you will always give thanks for everything to God,
the Father, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.
See, when you're filled with the Holy Spirit and your spirit is in touch with God,
you become thankful all the time.
It's one evidence that God is moving in your life,
that you have a heart that's thankful.
In fact, it's God's will for us that we be a people of thanks.
In 1 Thessalonians 5.18, Paul writes,
No matter what happens, always be thankful,
for this is God's will for you who belong to Christ Jesus.
So the Christian life is a life of gratitude.
That's right.
Do you know what's powerful about that?
It keeps our hearts soft towards the Lord.
It keeps our hearts soft towards each other.
It makes life better.
And we live a life of gratitude and thanksgiving.
And so my encouragement is this week not to make it a once-a-year experience,
but to make gratitude and thanksgiving an everyday experience.
Part of your prayer life every day is to begin,
Thank you, Father, for all that you've given me.
Whether I'm in a good place right now in life or a tough place right now,
thank you for the blessings that you have given to me.
And friends, you'll watch your life with God deepen,
your love for him will deepen,
and your relationships with others will deepen as well.
The attitude of gratitude is powerful.
God has touched your life in so many profound ways.
Will you go back and give him thanks?
Will you be the one?
Will you be the one?
As we think about that, I want us to read together this psalm.
I'm going to invite you to stand.
It's something a little different.
But I want us to interact with this scripture together.
And then after this, they're going to sing,
and we're going to have a baptism as a way of culminating our time together
and giving thanks to our Lord.
And I want us to read Psalm 136.
I'm going to read the first part, and you're going to respond each time.
And you're going to mean it from the bottom of your soul,
His love endures forever.
and you're going to say it over and over
because each time you say it you're going to mean it
a little more and a little more
and it's going to bless your life this morning
Psalm 136
Give thanks to the Lord
for He is good
His love endures forever
Give thanks to the God of gods
His love endures forever
Give thanks to the Lord of lords
to Him who alone
does great wonders
who by His understanding
made the heavens, who spread out the earth upon the waters, who made the great lights,
the sun to govern the day, the moon and the stars to govern the night, to him who struck
down the firstborn of Egypt, and brought Israel out from among them, with a mighty hand and
an outstretched arm, to him who divided the Red Sea asunder and brought Israel through
the midst of it, but swept Pharaoh and the army into the Red Sea, to him who led his
people through the desert, who struck down great kings and killed mighty kings, Sihon
king of the Amorites, and Og king of Bashan, and gave their land as an inheritance, an
inheritance to his servant Israel, to the one who remembered us in our low estate, and
freed us from our enemies, and who gives food to every creature, give thanks to the
God of heaven. His love endures forever. Amen.
