It really is. Easter is the Christian Super Bowl. This is it. For the real angels in heaven, this is the World Series. This is it.
The celebration of the resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ. I'm Pastor Kirk, and on behalf of the entire family here at Fullerton First, we welcome you.
We're glad that you are here, and we really hope you feel right at home this morning as we share together.
Well, I want to begin with a kind of a thought experiment for a moment.
In the quiet of your own pew, in your own mind, if you were asked, and I guess I am
asking, to describe Easter in your mind without using any words, but just using punctuation
marks, what would you choose?
Some of you, you might put a comma.
It would make you stop and think and pause, but that's about it.
Some of you might describe Easter as a period.
You'd feel excited about the day, but then after it was over, it was just a ritual and that was it.
Period.
For others, it might be a question mark.
You see what happened with those early disciples.
They were feeling like it was a period.
because Jesus had gone to the cross.
It was over for their enterprise.
It looked like it was just the end, period.
But then there's this news of an empty grave
and suddenly it goes to question mark
and then they come running and describe he is not there.
Now he's risen and the question mark turns to an exclamation point.
Here's the story.
early Sunday morning while it was still dark.
Mary Magdalene came to the tomb and found that the stone
had been rolled away from the entrance. She ran and
found Simon Peter and the other disciple, the one whom
Jesus loved. She said, they have taken the Lord's
body out of the tomb and I don't know where they have put him.
Peter and the other disciple ran to the tomb to see.
The other disciple outran Peter and got there first.
He stooped and looked in and saw the linen cloth lying there, but he didn't go in.
Then Simon Peter arrived and went inside.
He also noticed the linen wrappings lying there while the cloth that had covered Jesus' head was folded up and lying to the side.
the other disciple also went in and he saw and believed for until then they hadn't realized that
the scripture said he would rise from the dead and then they went home mary was standing outside
the tomb crying and as she wept she stood and looked in she saw two white robed angels sitting
at the head and foot of the place where the body of Jesus had been lying. Why are you crying?
The angels asked her. Because they've taken away my Lord, she replied, and I don't know where they've
put him. She glanced over her shoulder and saw something, someone standing behind her. It was
Jesus, but she didn't recognize him. Why are you crying? Jesus asked her. Who are you looking for?
She thought he was the gardener.
Sir, she said, if you have taken him away, tell me where you have put him.
I will go and get him.
Mary, Jesus said.
And she turned toward him and exclaimed,
Teacher, don't cling to me, Jesus said, for I haven't yet ascended to the Father.
But go, find my brothers and tell them I am ascending to the Father,
and your Father, my God, and your God.
And Mary Magdalene found the disciples and told them,
I have seen the Lord.
And she gave them his message.
That evening on the first day of the week,
the disciples were meeting behind locked doors.
They were afraid of the Jewish leaders.
Suddenly, Jesus was standing there among them.
Peace be with you, he said.
And as he spoke, he held out his hands for them to see,
and he showed them his side.
They were filled with joy when they saw their Lord.
He spoke to them again and said,
Peace be with you.
As the Father has sent me, so I send you.
And then he breathed on them and said to them,
Receive the Holy Spirit.
If you forgive anyone's sins, they are forgiven.
If you refuse to forgive them, they are unforgiven.
And one of the disciples, Thomas, nicknamed the Twin,
was not with the others when Jesus came
and they told him, we have seen the Lord.
But he replied, I won't believe it
unless I see the nail wounds in his hands,
put my fingers into them
and place my hand into the wound in his side.
Well, eight days later, the disciples were together again
and this time Thomas was with them.
The doors were locked, but suddenly Jesus, as before,
was standing among them and he said,
peace be with you. And he said to Thomas, put your finger here and see my hands. Put your hand
into the wound in my side. Don't be faithless any longer. Believe. And he replied, my Lord and my
God. And Jesus told him, you believe because you have seen me. Blessed are those who haven't seen
me and believe anyway. That's the story that leads to the exclamation mark. No matter what you believe
this morning about that passage, I think you will agree. It describes something completely amazing.
The resurrection is awesome. It takes your breath away. Exclamation point. Boom. But what?
What do you believe about this story?
Do you receive it this morning?
Do you act on it?
Or do you simply dismiss it?
Wherever you're coming from this morning, wherever you are,
I want to share with you what this passage means
and how it describes four different examples of faith,
four different peoples, four different groups who seek answers,
who seek Jesus, and they find Him.
It's my hope and prayer that you'd find Him this morning as well.
Peter and John.
Peter and John, John the author of the text,
they race to the tomb because of the report from Mary.
Jesus' body, friends, was gone.
The body was missing.
And sure enough, when they get there,
they see the evidence of the resurrection.
No body, the burial clothes are left undisturbed,
almost as if they were just simply left behind.
The head cloth folded neatly.
Peter and John don't see Jesus.
They just see the evidence.
And they believe.
They believe that Jesus had risen from the grave.
Now Mary, Mary Magdalene, came from the city of Magdala,
was one of the women that followed Jesus closely
throughout his entire career as teaching and preaching.
She was a woman that Jesus had delivered many demons from her.
She was astute follower of this man.
And in a fit of sadness over the loss of Jesus' body, she's weeping and talking to the angels.
And before they can even respond to her questions, to her statement, she turns and there's Jesus.
But she doesn't recognize him.
I think the combination of her grief, the stinging eyes from too many tears,
too little sleep for she was up at the crack of dawn going to the tomb,
the changed appearance of Jesus' resurrected body,
the thought of trying to find this corpse,
they blinded Mary to Jesus for the moment.
But then she realizes it's the risen Lord.
And she says, I've seen the Lord.
Mary has an encounter with Jesus, and she believes.
She has an encounter with the risen Jesus, and she believes that he has risen indeed, the disciples.
Now these guys, they hear the report, but now they're huddled in the upper room behind locked doors,
afraid, afraid of what all of this might mean.
Could he really be alive?
What would this mean if it was true?
What would it mean if he was really alive?
Was Mary really telling the truth?
And suddenly, Jesus is standing there.
He didn't come through the door.
He didn't break through the lock.
He's just standing there.
His resurrection body, not bound by the same laws of physics that ours are.
He's just standing there.
And he talks with them.
And he breathes on them.
And says, receive the Spirit.
and they become empowered for ministry.
Their lives are changed.
The church is born, and the mission continues from that moment on until today.
The disciples not only see this resurrection evidence,
they see Jesus, they hear Him, and they receive the Spirit, and they believe.
The disciples have an encounter with the Spirit, and they believe.
And finally, we come to Thomas.
he's been called doubting thomas because thomas won't believe until he can touch it and see it
and smell it he is one that's not going to be fooled by anything but his own senses grasping
jesus it's doubting thomas he wants evidence hard and fast evidence he's often like us
we want evidence really did he really rise really we want evidence friends the evidence exists
you have to check it out my challenge is if there's still doubt between you and the resurrected
lord that you would begin to embrace the evidence and look at it and test it like thomas did put
your hands so to speak in his side and look at it we hear the report we read the gospel we see the
text. We're challenged to believe. Thomas finally gets what he wants. He gets a chance to touch
Jesus. And the most outrageous doubter of all, doubting Thomas, utters the greatest confession
of the Lord who rose from the dead. He calls him, my Lord and my God. Great confession of faith.
He believes. What I think is interesting, though, is he misses one other blessing that Jesus gives.
He pronounces a blessing on those who believe that don't get a chance to touch Jesus in the flesh.
That's us.
Those who believe, who sort through the evidence, who really begin to go deep into this experience,
but who believe without touching Jesus.
There's a blessing that comes, says Jesus himself.
We cannot touch his wounds, but we are blessed for believing without Jesus' hands in our hands.
And there's good reason to do so.
The question for all of us is this.
friends do you believe do you believe that he rose again there's the evidence of the empty tomb
there's the evidence of jesus appearing to more than 500 people at a time there's the evidence
of the changed lives of the disciples there's the evidence of the changed lives in this room
there's the evidence of the holy spirit who lives around you and perhaps in your own life as well
the evidence is there do you believe do you believe in the resurrection friends here is why
it is so important why we spend so much emphasis on easter and the resurrection why it's the super
bowl of our faith is because if you remove the resurrection then christianity ultimately has
no power christianity has no purpose it's like taking the engine out of the car it just sits
there. It's nice. It's lifeless. It doesn't go anywhere. It has no purpose. Paul wrote this in
Corinthians. He said, if Christ has not been raised, our preaching is useless and so is your faith, he
says. And then he goes on, if Christ has not been raised, your faith is futile and you're still
in your sin if jesus friends did not rise from the dead then christianity is just a religion
of platitudes with no teeth it's talk with no power it's ideas with no substance but since
christ rose from the grave our faith is vindicated our past is forgiven our future is secure and our
now is right here. We have resurrection power from this day on. That's why the resurrection
is so important. The writer John Updike said this in a poem called The Seven Stanzas at Easter.
He said, make no mistake, if he rose at all, it was as his body. If the cell's dissolution did
not reverse, the molecules
re-knit, the amino acids
rekindle, the church
will fall.
Let us not mock God
with metaphor, analogy,
sidestepping transcendence,
making of the event a
parable, a sign
painted in the faded
credulity of earlier ages.
Let us walk through
the door. The
stone is rolled back,
not paper mache,
not a stone in a story, but the vast rock of materiality that in the slow grinding of time
will eclipse for each of us the wide light of day. This is serious business, this resurrection.
And friends, here is why it is important to believe, because here is what the message of
Easter is all about. It's that God came to earth to connect with we human beings by becoming one
of us. God came in the flesh of Jesus Christ, and by taking on flesh, by Jesus walking, God walking
the earth, spending time in our world, experiencing life from our perspective, He came to teach us
how to live how to connect with each other and how to connect with god he came to heal people's
bodies but most of all he came to heal people's souls and he came to take the punishment that we
deserve for rebelling against god friends we've all rebelled against god in some way
we've all done our own thing we've all done something against what god would have for us
and for that we make ourselves morally dirty
and morally unclean.
And for a God that is perfect,
for a God that is morally pure,
we're unable to make that intimate connection
because of what blocks us
are the dirty rags that we wear
because of our sin.
And yet God wants to be so connected to us.
He wants so much for us to be His.
He wants so much to know you
and to love you
and to be in your life
and to fill you up with everything He has for you,
that Jesus then came to take care of the problem.
Because of God's incredible love for us,
through Jesus, God came to endure our punishment.
And He went to the cross to take away our sin
and our guilt and our shame.
He came to set us free from the lifestyle patterns
that we live that enslave us,
that crush our spirits,
that rob us of joy in life.
He came to take all of that away.
Let me share with you some things we do here in Orange County
that crush us and enslave us.
We push too hard at work.
We ignore those that are closest to us.
We're trying to fill a need inside
that only God can fill.
We abuse substances.
We abuse credit cards.
We abuse relationships.
We do whatever we have to do to stay numb
to the nagging sense that in our soul
that life hasn't measured up the way we thought it would.
We live aimlessly without purpose.
We just drift through life.
Or we live in fear of death
because when it all comes down,
we don't know where we're going to be after death.
And those issues that nag on our souls,
they enslave us.
They enslave us to fear.
They enslave us to addiction.
they enslave us to all kinds of internal turmoil but friends because of jesus and the resurrection
we can have peace and free ourselves from these things and this morning can be the beginning of
new life a whole new start because you can find an answer and fulfillment to these needs you can find
peace this morning you feel empty inside and you want that void filled the resurrected jesus will
fill that void. You want to know where you're going to go after death? In Jesus Christ, the one
who came to beat death. He's been there and back. He will take you across the veil. You want a new
purpose for life? Because the old one is not working. Friends, you can have a purpose in life.
It's to live for God's kingdom with His power and His purpose in your life. And you know what's also
good news? No matter what you've done in your past, no matter how messed up things might be,
there's always a fresh start there's always a new beginning with god it's kind of god we serve
jesus was often encountering people who just really made a mess of things and he always offered
stop doing that and start over and there's always forgiveness and there's always new hope
that's jesus and friends we don't you don't need me to tell you that we live in unsettled times
the war in iraq dwindles down to a mere fizzle but friends there's no guarantee that every day
is going to be safe.
Each day counts.
We must live it with purpose
and conviction and hope and direction.
Life is a fragile flower.
And then it's gone.
We must live it to the fullest.
And friends, I'm here to say
that with the resurrection power of Jesus
in your life,
you will live it with purpose
and with power,
with hope now and forevermore.
So my question is,
are you living your life
to the fullest potential that you have?
Are you sure about your life beyond this earth?
Do you need peace in your soul today?
Friends, I'm here to say that when you get caught up
in the resurrection of Jesus,
yeah, there's fear,
and you might even be feeling a lump
in the back of your throat even now.
Sense that something big is happening
because it is happening.
The God of the universe is speaking to you.
Friends, when you confront the reality of the resurrection
and begin to let it soak deep into your soul.
It will change you forever
and give you a life that you can never,
would never believe possible.
And there's people all over this room
that live that kind of life.
And there's no going back.
Are you ready?
Do you believe this?
Will you believe this?
Will you accept this?
Because in a few moments,
we're going to sing this great resurrection hymn.
And I'm going to ask you,
if you're ready to receive this,
to come down and meet my prayer team
and experience this.
And if there's beads of sweat on your brow,
maybe God is speaking to you.
If there's a rumble in your stomach,
it may not just be the donut.
God may be speaking to you this morning
saying it's time to get things right
and to take off on a new kind of life.
And I want to give you that opportunity this morning.
We are here to love you
and to share the Lord Jesus with you.
And you can leave this room
filled with the Holy Spirit,
God's Spirit,
Jesus' spirit he left behind after he ascended. You can have that today
because here's the good news again a different way. Michelangelo,
the great artist. The story is told that he turned one time
to the fellow artists all around him and he said this
with frustration in his voice. He said, why do you keep
filling gallery after gallery with all these
endless pictures of this one theme of Jesus
And that theme is weakness.
Basically, you're always painting him in suffering and in death on a cross.
And he said, you know, the reality is the real hope is the empty tomb.
That's the drama of Easter.
Christ is alive, and he rules, and he reigns, and he triumphs.
And that's what our hope is in.
Yes, Jesus had to go through the death, but we don't stop there.
we go all the way to Sunday morning
to the good news
that he rose again
he wants to give you that kind of life
a life that's promised to be
alive even after death
the kind of power that can
fill you is the kind of power that
rose that raised Jesus from
the dead are you ready for that
church are you ready to have that kind of power
I hope so
and if you're ready
and you've never prayed anything like this
let's bow and you pray this
with me. Lord, I hear
you speaking to me, and I
want what that
pastor's talking about. I'm
sorry for the things I've done
and how I've hurt you and me and
others, and I want that new
start. I want my
soul free and cleansed
and to have a brand
new day. Lord, I
want the power that
raised Jesus from the dead to be
in me, and I want to live for
you and to please you
and to live a life with purpose and direction
and with hope forever.
So I'm sorry for the things I've done.
I want to start and follow Jesus from now on forever.
I'm yours.
Amen.
