And to share with you today, a little boy sat by his mother in church. He was squirming in the church service. She had exhausted all the things in her purse that she brought just for him. They were all through, and he was still squirming.
and so she got a hold of him a little bit
and said, now look, we're going to, softly she said
we're going to look up at those flags
that's up in the chancel
and so she described the American flag
whispered what those stars and stripes and colors meant
then she went to the Christian flag
talked about what that meant
and the symbols on that Christian flag
and why we have it there as Christians
and then over on the wall was another flag that the little boy had spotted. It was over there. It
was a flag that had been made into a banner and it was framed and it was a church probably just
a little larger than this and had been around a long time so that there were decades of people
that were there that have seen a good history pass by, and so there was that banner that had
some stars and stripes and coloring over on one corner of it, and outside the banner was a brass
plaque that had names written on it. A little boy was looking at it, and she's, and it was full of
stars, gold stars, and he said, what's that flag, and she said, oh, she said, that flag, that gold star
flag is for all of the people in our church that have died in the service, and he said, the first
service or the second service, that old story, you know, you have to wonder why it is so humorous
all the time. And I think it's because we can share just a little bit of that boy's feeling
sometimes in the worship service. And we can kind of identify. And it also is kind of an
implication about the worship service itself. But also there are times when we come not as prepared
as we should and we'd like to be, and we find ourselves sometimes tired, had busy time,
and maybe just a teeny wincy bored. Now, I've been a member, we, Carol and I, have been a member of
this church since 1978 when I was the regional executive minister, and a much longer time than
when I served as pastor here for almost four years.
So I've been out there with you in the pews.
And I know that on occasion, a weariness can overtake us.
And some closing of the eyes a little bit.
A slight nodding of the head.
And for me, Carol comes to the rescue with just a little nudge.
And in our finer moments, we know it shouldn't be like that.
There was a legend that went around for a while of a minister talking to another minister.
And he said, you know, I had a dream the other day, and I dreamed that I was preaching
to my congregation. And I woke up and discovered I was. And all of this simply means that we need
to take a look, another look at worship. We kind of take it for granted. Sometimes it's just
the same-o, same-o, and we don't mean that it gets a better worship because we change things around,
but it does mean that we need to look at worship bigger than how you're feeling at the moment,
and look at worship for what it can do in people's lives. We come, and now we're in a series of
an adventure in worship a joyful response to a loving God and when we say that we also know
there are some people here I don't know who they are might have in their heart is there any hope
they may be in a place that looks like a cave and not a tunnel and so we need to work look at our
worship, and in our best moments, we know that it can be life-changing. I wouldn't ask for hands
today, but I know there are some of you that in a worship service was touched by God within that
worship service itself, and it may not have been much different than last week's worship service,
but somehow God got a hold of them, and they got a hold of God, and things were changed.
Now, we want to look at that and see what that would look like. In all of mankind,
there is a God-shaped vacuum within each life that can only be filled by God.
you might not know it and you might deny it but it is a fact it is not by accident that we find
in the classic words of the Westminster Shorter Catechism written decades and years ago man's and
woman's chief purpose in life is to glorify God and enjoy him forever we sense some of that joy
among you today. Songs were sung, hands were raised, there was a feeling, not of it just
emotion that you would feel at a ball game, but a genuine feeling that God is here, and you want
to give yourself in this, and you are enthused, and you are moved, not just by the melody, not just by
the rhythm, not just by the instruments, but by the words that are expressed, and you could also
say count me in them's my sentiments you betcha and you don't have to whisper amen to me all right
thank you to glorify god and to enjoy him forever worship is the highest order of our involvement
with god it was laid out in the old testament spread right through and expanded on in the new
testament because of the coming of christ his sacrifice and his burial and his resurrection
and his ascension so that the living Lord is present when we worship. We simply need to be
wide enough awake and aware and sensitive to that. And so scriptures throughout, we see that
the emphasis and thrust of worship is throughout all of scripture. Exodus 31, 12 to 13, which is
our text today. Then the Lord said to Moses, said to the Israelites, you must observe my Sabbaths.
This will be a sign between me and you for the generations to come, so that you may know that
I am the Lord who makes you holy. Now that isn't a kind of a word that takes the joy out of life,
makes you holy, makes you open to God, and makes you the way God had created you.
Chronicles says, Ascribe to the Lord, O families of nations, ascribe to the Lord
glory and strength. Ascribe to the Lord the glory due his name. Bring an offering. Come before him.
Worship the Lord in the splendor of his holiness.
In Psalms 95, come, let us bow down in worship.
Let us kneel before the Lord our maker, for he is our God,
and we are the people of his pastor, the flock under his care.
God has created us in his own image.
That means that we have the ability to respond to him
and have a relationship with him.
Years ago when I was the pastor here,
and some of you may still remember,
I said over and over again
that Christianity, before it is anything else,
Christianity is first a relationship.
A relationship.
We get hung up on ideas,
we get hung up on those things,
and we forget that there is a living person
that never was created. He is God, and we have been created in such a way that we can have a
relationship, and that means it's two-sided. He comes, we come, and we have a relationship with
the living God through Jesus Christ. That's why we're so Christocentric in our message
and in our ministry. God has created us in his own image, and therefore our recognition and worship
of him is the pace setter for the living out of our lives. This then changes how we look at
ourselves. I want to share a word from Paul Shearer, who has been, I never met him, but I
think annoying, a preacher's preacher, and he said this, human life has by some been taught to think
of itself as a blob of protoplasm, an itch on the epidermis of a pygmy planet, an accident of matter,
the first cousin of an ape that learned how to shave. A person has a hard time thinking about
oneself as he should. We've come to do that here. Our life is a gift from God. Our life is a gift
from God, and we have expressed that, those of us who have had the joy of having children,
the mother who, for the first time, that little bit of plastic personality is placed
into her arms and hands, and she looks, and she thanks God. She thanks God. What a gift.
What a gift. We did that, Carol and I, for our three children. We counted two eyes, one nose,
one mouth. They're all there, and they're all hooked on in the right place. Thank you, God.
You betcha.
And we need to know that.
Our life is a gift from God.
Now, what we do with our life is our gift to him.
And we live out our lives in that.
We lead out-of-breath lives.
How many of you feel that?
None of you.
You never go to work at 8 o'clock in the morning on the freeway.
you think that you can get to where you're supposed to go in 20 minutes if all the lights
are green and they never are I've tried it I know and we go where we're going breathless
I'm sorry I'm late we lead out of breath lives we pile so much into it that it just overwhelms us
the daily demands and pressure of life overwhelm the call to glorify God and enjoy him forever
and in truth many of us haven't a clue about what it means to enjoy God we live in a culture
that knows nothing about that what you have in your hand and what you feel in touch those are
the real important things that will make you what you want to be and that's a bunch of baloney and
we live in that kind of culture. Now there's hope for change. We can learn how to take time
to catch a life-giving breath. This is the breath of renewal and refreshment that comes through
worship. Now I want to share with you the principles of worship that can change our lives.
There are two of them. One, God's people are first and foremost people of worship.
That is an umbrella that covers everything else, our doing, our being, things we do within the life
of the church. All of that is under the umbrella of worship. A follower of Jesus Christ is known
for many characteristics, but none is more important than worship. Worship is the clearest
expression of what we value. And I would ask you a question, what do you value? What do you value?
what we value most defines us best we must remember that the decisions we make determine
the life we live goes right back to the values we hold the directions we take
and jesus taught what we are to value most in that great commandment lord the lord your god
without your heart, with all your heart, mind, soul, and strength. In worship, we place God's
worth above everything else. We express our valuing of God, our love of God, by gathering
with people to give glory to God through the gospel preached, enacted, sung, remembered,
and celebrated. Worship can become a vital experience in our lives and a witness, and we
are transformed, changed, transformed. That's more than just punch here and punch there and make it
better. Transformed by the renewing of our minds. Let's hear the words of Romans 12, 1 and 2.
Therefore, I urge you, brothers and sisters, in view of God's mercy, to offer your body as living
sacrifices, holy and pleasing to God. This is your spiritual act of worship. Do not let the world
squeeze you into its own mold, but may you be remolded in your spirit and heart by God,
which is your reasonable sense of worship. Then you are able to test and approve what God's will
is, his good, pleasing, and perfect will. Worship is a personal experience within the body of Christ
and a public event as God's people meet together. We are not a secret society. We are blatantly
open to the world. We are thankful for all that are Christian, but we're a minority in the world
and we're not secret. We're open by the lives we live, by opening for worship. We don't have
something that we want to keep from other people. We want to give away what we have received
and have them with us.
God is able to make changes.
He is able to do that.
Even with broken people who have been redeemed,
people that are forgiven.
I remember that little old phrase that said,
God can draw a straight line with a crooked stick
and he can take crooked sticks
and draw straight lines in the world in which we live.
Worship is a personal experience within the body of Christ
and a public event in which God's people meet together.
Worship has been central to the life of God's people from the start.
Number two, worship sets the pace of life.
The pace setter for life is worship.
In Exodus, the Lord instructed the Israelites on the building of the tabernacle,
the rituals, sacrifice, and worship.
he also instructed them on the necessity of keeping the Sabbath. This reveals his design
for the rhythm of life for a long journey. I'm reminded of Professor Lowell of Harvard University.
Lowell was his last name. Lowell of Harvard. I am Lowell of Bakersfield. He was speaking at a
Columbus Day affair, and he said there were three profound things about Christopher Columbus
and the discovery of America. First, when he left Spain, he didn't know where he was going.
When he got to the New World, he didn't know where he was. And when he went back to Spain to report
to King Ferdinand, he didn't know where he had been. And the capper was that he wanted to do it
next year again. But we have a design for the rhythm of life that will extend clear into
eternity. God calls us to do his work in accordance with his will, and overlying all of that is
worship. Now, God gives three reasons to support his command to keep the Lord's day.
these are actually promises given to those who allow worship to set the pace for our lives
one worship expresses the priority of our commitment to the lord god almighty
and cultivates the sense of his presence he says through moses you must observe my sabbath
this will be a sign between you and me for the generations to come so you may know that i am the
Lord. Without worship, think about this now, without worship, we lose a living knowledge of
God. If we only contain it to reading over here, thinking over here, we never gather for worship.
We begin to lose a knowledge of God in the sense that he is not vital and real, and we have not
participated in it. Baptism, communion, all of those things that tie us together. When we take
time to worship, to focus on his word, remember his works, our spirit awakens to the hope that is
ours on this Lord's day. Hebrews 10 says, and let us consider how we may spur one another on toward
love and good deeds. Let us not give up meeting together, as some are in the habit of doing.
Let us encourage one another, and all the more you see the days approaching. What worship does,
it recalibrates our lives, the guidance system of our lives. It recalibrates it.
Worship keeps us from the disorientation that comes from giving too much value to the stuff
and activities of life and our culture in this world.
In this way, God uses the Lord's day as our pace setter,
reminding us that all the other days
and find their purpose and culmination in this day.
Dean Smith has been a friend of mine for 30 years.
I remember when I was his pastor years ago,
and one day he said, I want to have an appointment with you.
I met with him all the time, prayed with him.
but he came in and he Dean Smith was at that time and that was the time of
double-digit inflated inflation double-digit interest and a banks were
having hard times everybody wanted money and was mad because they couldn't get it
because of all the interest and he was the chief loan officer of large loans
for a multi-bank, the largest bank in Arizona.
He went to that kind of hothouse every day.
He came in and said,
Lowell, I want to tell you something.
He said, worship is absolutely essential to me.
When I come to worship,
I need all that I can get to make it through the week.
And he was a prayer.
He had his own devotions.
But worship was center for him.
He said, it gives me the strength, the fellowship empowers me. I need that to do what I'm supposed
to do in the name of God where I am, and I never forgot that. I became even more sensitive
to what worship is supposed to be and what worship cannot do, and how many people depend on that
Sunday after Sunday after Sunday.
Two, worship makes us available
for the transforming power of God
to renew our minds
and shape the life of Christ
within me and within you.
Paul Shearer again says,
a religion about a God in general
is like a car without a clutch.
All the right ideas,
but nothing to throw them into gear
and make them function.
The faith we have
is Christ, God himself, incarnate in human life, flesh, blood, and bone, now and forever,
creating, redeeming, acting, moving, not out yonder, right here, right now. Worship puts us in a place
where God can reach us and begin to have his way with us. Through the spiritual disciplines, God
can begin to have his way in our lives we can work with he can work within and transform us
listen to this it's William Temple writing long time ago to worship is to quicken the conscience
by the holiness of God to feed the mind with the truth of God to purge the imagination by the beauty
of God, to open the heart to the love of God, to devote the will to the purpose of God. When we
begin to experience this transforming power in church, in this church, our lives and our
congregation will never be the same. Amen? You're still with me. Three, inherent in keeping the
Lord's Day is one of rest. This rest is a rest from the activity through the week, a rest that
defines all other activity. It is a call to redeem and reclaim our place in creation, breaking free
from the clamor of the world around us. As God instructed his people in the principles of life,
the Lord's Day, keeping the Lord's Day through worship, was his practical plan for our ongoing
renewal of body and spirit. I want to say to you that the test of a worship service and a sermon
is not what you would say to me today when you leave. The test of a worship service and a sermon
is Monday. It's Monday. It's when we're out there. It's Monday. What we take with us,
and that puts a real responsibility when we think about that. It's not what you say at the door.
It's what happens to you in your life on Monday as you've gathered here. You take something with
you, and we're thankful for that. Now, the question is, how can we make worship the pacesetter
of our lives? I never thought you'd ask that question. Since you have, I'll tell you. We need
to develop a clear biblical understanding of worship. If you need to move a little bit, not
squirm, leave it. You can, because I want you to hang on to the next few minutes. It can change
our lives. We need to develop a clear biblical understanding of worship. We need to know that
the idea we have about worship, like when you came in, will determine the way we respond
in worship. We need to look carefully at our ideas, the expectations we have about the worship
experience, the reflections we have upon it, what we say about it, or our response to the worship
experience. All of this will be determined by the idea or pattern or model or paradigm
that we consciously or unconsciously have in our mind when we come to worship. All of this
will be determined by the idea or pattern that we have. I want us to look now at a worship
paradigm that is up on the screen. And you see worship paradigm, the common concept,
the biblical concept, and down the middle are the three elements within worship. The audience,
the participants, and the prompter. We live in an entertainment culture, so we are always in so
many ways, we're the audience. A ball game, a concert, a lecture, we're the audience. We sit
down at the television. Do we participate? No, we're the audience. And Nielsen calls up and gets
the ratings of the audience. The following model is the one that most of us pattern our worship on.
The audience is the congregation. The participants are the pastor and the worship leaders.
And the prompter? Well, the prompter is God, who prompts the worship leaders and the pastor
to minister to the audience, the congregation. Now, our response, if that's our model,
our response and all the above that we have mentioned this model will determine how we react
and what we say we will make statements like oh the sermon was good today or uh i like the choir
music i wish they'd have sang more praise songs or i didn't get anything out of what the pastor
said today, or the prayer is too long, or a general statement, oh, that was pretty good today.
Then I could add all the hundred of comments you people could make when you leave the worship
service if you are the audience. Now, let us turn this model on its head to look at the biblical
concept of worship. You ready? The audience is God. Now, we respond to that sometimes when somebody
says, what do you do in worship? Well, and why do you go? Well, we go to worship God. But if we go
as an audience, it isn't in sync. Now, let us turn it over and look at it. The audience is God.
The audience is God.
The participants, hold on, it's you.
It's the congregation.
The participants are the congregation.
The prompters, pastor, worship leaders,
prompted by the Holy Spirit to bring the best we can
and for the congregation to respond.
It wasn't just by happenstance that I asked you to say,
God is good all the time, all the time. God is good. There's a congregational response,
and we come with a mindset that God is the audience. He's listening in. No more than that,
the living Christ is here. Aren't you glad he doesn't have an evaluation sheet?
The audience is God. The participants are the congregation. The prompters are the pastor and
worship leaders. Now, with this as our model, this changes how we respond and the statements we make
about worship. For then, if that was operative, we would say, how did I present myself to God today?
Gee, I rushed out of the house. The kids didn't get dressed in time. Got there five minutes late.
well, that's all right. How was your heart? How did I present myself to God today? Did I lift my
praises to God? Did I pray when prayer was a part of the worship? Did I ask myself, how am I going
to respond to the sermon today? Whether the sermon was good or bad, how am I going to respond to that?
Not as a critic, but what is God saying through those words? It changes the whole way that we
worship and what God can do in our lives as a result of worship. I can't emphasize that more.
It's been a passion in my life for years, and we need to be open to be surprised by God,
and when that happens, God becomes the audience. We become the participants. We have the privilege
of being the prompters, and something marvelous can come with that mindset. The worship of God's
people is vital to our spiritual health. How many of you take vitamins? Only three.
I know that's different. Of course you take vitamins. You might just change periodically
because why? You want to have health. You want to be healthy. You want to live a strong life.
The worship of God's people is vital to our spiritual health, and that involves eternity.
It gives meaning, direction, and energy to the other days of the week.
In these coming weeks, may God touch us in our worship as we are in this series,
Adventure in Worship, a joyous response to a loving God.
Our English word, worship, signifies worthship.
God is worthy of our worship.
He's worthy.
He's not a counterfeit.
He's worthy.
It is expressed, I think, best.
It's in the book of Revelation,
of what will be in the future.
But it's worship.
It's Revelation 5, 12 to 14.
And the participants and the prompter
are going to read it out loud.
And I'm going to direct you.
I want it to be strong
I want it to have meaning in your life
I want you to feel the words
don't read it like a newspaper
I want you to feel the words
as we read together
reading
the angels sing
wait a minute
I'm going to start over
we need to start right on top
reading
the angels sing
worthy is the lamb who was slain
to receive power and wealth and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and praise.
Then I, John, heard every creature in heaven and on earth and under the earth and on the sea
joining in the praise, singing to him who sits on the throne and to the Lamb be praise and honor
and glory and power forever and ever.
Then the four living creatures said, Amen.
And the elders fell down and worshiped.
And we say, Amen.
