Thank you, Gwen. It was beautiful, as always.
Communion really grabs me this day, as I'm on the eve, or the day after, rather, of celebrating the birthday of my oldest son.
His birthday is actually next week, but the crazy party was yesterday. I survived it.
But it's a poignant time as well when you think about a son, or a child, a daughter,
and what it means that the father would give that child up for others.
We had a good time bowling, if you can imagine, 13 kids dropping heavy balls everywhere
and running on those little shoes that slide.
It was a day I will never forget.
We had a great time, but still the idea of God giving up his son really captures me.
And because he did that, we can pray.
We can come into the presence of the Father.
And I'm so amazed by that.
And so we continue our second of three weeks in this issue of prayer before we get underway in the fall season.
And so number two, we're talking about some principles this morning for answered prayer.
We start talking about prayer.
We get to the issue of answered prayer.
because in the Christian worldview, this is not a gimmick or an exercise
or some kind of technique to relax your muscles.
This is not an Eastern philosophical experience of emptying yourself into the great nothingness.
Prayer in the Christian context is talking to God person to person.
It's a whole different kind of experience than is offered today in the culture of our day
where prayer is a meditation, a technique, something you learn at the local yoga or health club.
Friends, prayer is something far deeper than those experiences.
Prayer is a dynamic between persons.
prayer is part of a relationship between god and human beings prayer is conversing and listening
to the king of kings and there's nothing like it in all the world amen i agree and when you
converse and listen to another person there is the expectation that you will connect and receive
results, that there will be an answer to the discussion. The same is true in prayer with our
Heavenly Father. And like in any relationship where there's tension, there's strife or problems
between those two persons, the communication can be strained and the results can be shaky at best.
And the same can happen in prayer as well. And we'll explore that this morning. And so that we
might be effective in prayer. I'm going to share what the Bible says in various places
about four principles that I came up with out of Scripture for answered prayer. And
my hope is that this will be helpful. You'll find it effective. And so the first one may
sound basic, but it's the foundation. And we all need to be reminded again that number
one, for effective prayer, we must have an honest relationship to God. And the key there
is an honest relationship with God. I want to come back to a text that we saw last week
in John chapter 15. Jesus said to the disciples, but if you stay joined to me and my words
remain in you. You may ask any request you like, and it will be granted. That's a wonderful,
amazing promise. But I would like for us to look a little more closely, because there's a promise
there, but there's also a premise underneath. And the premise is that we have to stay joined to
Jesus Christ, that we are to remain in him, that his words are to remain in us. And so the question
becomes, how do we stay joined to Jesus Christ and let his words remain in us? We have to have an
honest relationship with God, an honest relationship. We have to talk to Jesus. We have to let his words
permeate our minds and our hearts.
We have to live out his words in actions.
And we put those words into our souls
by reading and memorizing and learning
and studying the scriptures.
We have to have an honest relationship with God.
How do we know if we're having
an honest relationship with God?
I've got three things to share.
And the book of 1 John begins to help us
understand if our relationship with God is real and true and honest. And so the first question we
can ask ourselves is this, am I refusing to admit wrongs I have done in the past? The Bible has a
word for that, calls it unconfessed sin. These might be attitudes, they might be actions, addictions
or habits, whatever it is that is holding us back from drawing close unto God, when
we take part of those activities, it displeases God.
It breaks our connection with Him.
But the good news is this, and out of 1 John 1, verse 8 and following, he says,
If we say we have no sin, we're only fooling ourselves and refusing to accept the truth.
but if we confess our sins to him he is faithful and just to forgive us and to cleanse us from
every wrong if we claim we have not sinned we're calling god a liar and showing that his word
has no place in our hearts so what is confession confession is simply being honest with god
It's saying, God, you're right.
I was wrong.
That attitude or that action, that jealousy, that impatience, whatever it is, was wrong.
And God, I need your forgiveness.
You know you have an honest relationship with God when you're sensitive to the Holy Spirit speaking and convicting in your heart.
And instead of fighting back, you say, God, you're right.
I was wrong.
That was a mistake.
I acknowledge that.
I confess that.
It's out in the open.
It's not hidden away.
It's out there.
Now please take it away.
The second thing is, am I currently ignoring any of God's principles?
Are you consciously ignoring something that you know that God wants you to do?
Something that scripture is plain to you about, but you are conveniently ignoring those passages.
You might be conveniently ignoring that sense of disturbance in your conscience when you know what's the right thing and you begin to dally with doing the opposite.
The text in 1 John says this, this is the message he has given us to announce to you.
God is light and there's no darkness in him at all.
So we are lying if we say we have fellowship with God, but go on living in spiritual darkness.
We're not living in the truth.
But if we're living in the light of God's presence, just as Christ is,
then we have fellowship with each other, and the blood of Jesus, His Son, it cleanses us from every sin.
I think the bottom line out of a text like this is you can't expect God to answer prayer when you're disobedient in a relationship with Him.
If you're walking in darkness and ignoring God's principles for living right now, you're not in an honest relationship with God.
God answers prayer when we get honest with Him and confess our sin and get real with God.
Number two, if we're going to have God answer our prayers, we're going to have to take on the forgiving attitude towards others.
If you're going to have answer to prayer, you're going to approach God with a forgiving attitude towards others.
I don't know if you've ever experienced this, but sometimes I pray in the quiet of my office or at home,
And I just get this amazing sense that every prayer is doing this, boing, right off the ceiling.
I'm just not getting through.
And it's almost like it's bouncing around in the office or the home.
And I can't figure out what's happening until God begins to say,
because you're angry with this person, or you're holding a grudge,
or there's some issue you're holding towards others.
And it blocks my connection with my God.
Matthew 6.12, in Jesus, the Lord's Prayer,
he said, and forgive us our sins
just as we have forgiven those who sinned against us.
Oh, there's a connection, isn't there?
Yes.
Earlier in the Sermon on the Mount,
Jesus talked about reconciliation,
and he said in Matthew 5.23,
if you're standing before the altar in the temple
offering a sacrifice to God,
and you suddenly remember
that someone has something against you,
Leave your sacrifice beside the altar.
Go and be reconciled to that person.
Then come and offer the sacrifice to God.
Why does he talk about reconciliation and forgiveness?
Because reconciliation and forgiveness are intimately related to our relationship with God.
And if we're going to experience dynamic answers in prayer,
we need our hearts to be clean from bitterness and resentment and unforgiveness.
I love what Hebrews chapter 12 verse 15 says.
It captures it all.
The writer says,
See to it that no one fails to obtain the grace of God,
that no root of bitterness springs up and causes trouble,
and through it many become defiled.
It's a powerful verse.
the root of bitterness
that it not spring up
and cause trouble
friends in my experience in my own life
and in watching other people
I have to say that bitterness
will decimate your body
that bitterness
will literally shrivel
your soul
that bitterness will cripple
your life with God
I had the privilege of having lunch
breakfast rather this week
with Dr. Earl Hensland, a new friend and colleague, a psychologist in the area.
And he and I are working diligently on putting together this conference this fall in October,
beginning about the middle of October on Tuesday nights, on spirituality and sexuality.
We have two reasons for that.
One, it's an issue that the world is just buzzing about,
but I think it's an issue for the church as well.
And we're going to be dealing with all kinds of issues about wellness and passionate spirituality
as it relates to our bodies and our sexuality and how they all intertwine.
It's going to be a fascinating three evenings.
Dr. Amin from Newport Beach, a psychiatrist,
one who's working on brain chemistry and all kinds of exciting things there,
is going to be helping us.
It's going to be a fascinating evening.
And as Earl and I talked this week about that conference and planning it,
We began to talk also about how bitterness literally affects the mind and the brain and the soul.
And literally, when I say cripples and shrivels, I guess I'm not kidding.
He said, yes, it really does.
And some of those issues will come out in our conference.
Bitterness and unforgiveness is a cancer to our bodies and to our souls.
And friends, you know people who have bitterness and unforgiveness in their lives.
And you know that they're miserable.
And it could be you.
You might know them because you're pointing back.
It's time for you and or for your friends and family to confess that bitterness and that anger and unforgiveness
and let God take it away.
And when that experience happens, you get honest with God.
and you find the channel between you and the Heavenly Father opens up,
an effectual prayer begins to take place again in your life.
So the first principle in answering prayer, an effectual, honest prayer,
is an honest relationship with God.
And number two, it's a forgiving attitude towards others.
Third, I see Scripture affirming that we must, as human beings, have a generous spirit.
A generous spirit.
As you search the scriptures, you'll see over and over that God is a God of love and mercy and generosity.
That his heart is big in giving to others.
It's in his heart to give.
After all, as we symbolized here, he gave his only son for us.
And God wants us to be like him.
God wants us to take on his character.
And if he wants our character to reflect his character,
we're going to have to yearn for the things that God's heart yearns for.
And God's heart yearns to be and continues to be a God who gives.
The Bible affirms the spiritual principle that you will sow what you reap.
What you give out comes back.
I think it's not too much to say that if you want God to bless your life,
you're going to have to be willing to be a blessing to others.
If you want the Lord to give to you, you must be willing to spread it around.
God is not interested in blessing that we might just get more and more,
but that we might be a channel to bless others.
Do you recall the phrase we talked about last year?
God wants us to be a river and not a reservoir.
He wants to be a river that pours and flows and gives to others
instead of holding as a reservoir.
Some of you are sitting out there very astute saying,
hey, this is stewardship, not prayer.
That's the November sermon series.
But guess what?
It's all stewardship.
Because life is managing what God has given us.
And it affects our life in prayer as well.
They're all interrelated.
If you want God to meet your needs, friends,
we must be willing to meet the needs of others.
If you want God to bless you with a special treat,
you must be willing to share that blessing with others.
If you want God to bless you with a new attitude in your heart,
God wants to see that attitude displayed in action toward others.
Proverbs 21, 13 says this,
If a man shuts his ears to the cry of the poor,
he too will cry out and not be answered.
It's a strong principle about being a blessing to others.
And it also has something to say about God's heart for the poor.
Look at 1 John chapter 3, verse 21 to 23.
Dear friends, if our conscience is clear, we can come to God with bold confidence.
And we will receive whatever request because we obey him and do the things that please him.
And this is his commandment.
We must believe in the name of his son, Jesus Christ, and love one another just as he commanded us.
So to receive from God, we're going to have to follow his commands.
And his commands here are believing in Jesus Christ and loving one another.
Loving one another.
That's being a blessing to other people.
Look at verses 16 and 18 of that same text.
1 John chapter 3.
We know what real love is because Christ gave up his life for us.
And so we also ought to give up our lives for our Christian brothers and sisters.
But if anyone has enough money to live well and sees a brother or sister in need
and refuses to help, how can God's love be in that person?
Dear children, let us stop just saying we love each other.
Let us really show it by our actions.
Do you see what the Bible is saying there?
Do you see how it's saying that love is practical?
That love is action?
It's more than a warm fuzzy.
It expresses itself in tangible, concrete ways in the lives of others.
And God blesses us so that we might bless other people
and be a channel of blessing in the world.
That's that principle of stewardship.
And it's all throughout the Scripture that God blesses
in order that we might be a blessing to others.
Answered prayer comes from an honest relationship with God.
It comes from a forgiving attitude towards others.
And it comes as God gives us a generous spirit.
And finally, number four, I've put down that we must pray in Jesus' name.
Pray in Jesus' name.
What does that mean?
We tack on the phrase, in Jesus' name, at the end of our prayers,
but I'm not always sure that we always know really what that means.
The Scriptures give this idea.
If you read it in a straightforward manner, listen to this.
John 14, verse 13.
Jesus says,
You can ask for anything in my name, and I will do it,
because the work of the Son brings glory to the Father.
Yes, ask anything in my name, and I will do it.
But Jesus is saying more than just putting a phrase to a prayer to make it effective.
Is that always asking that we just, if I throw on in Jesus' name,
it's sort of a magic incantation that somehow opens up the keys to heaven?
I don't think so.
To pray in Jesus' name is to recognize the authority by which you are coming to God.
You are approaching the God of the universe when you come in prayer.
And it's not to be taken lightly.
But you are welcome.
Catch this.
You are welcome to come because of what Jesus Christ did on the cross.
You are welcome to come because of what he did on the cross.
Hebrews chapter 10 verse 21.
And since we have a great high priest who rules over God's people,
Let us go right into the presence of God with true hearts, fully trusting him.
Did you catch that?
Let us come right into the presence of God.
For our evil consciences have been sprinkled with Christ's blood to make us clean,
and our bodies have been washed with pure water.
We're approaching God, friends, because of what Jesus did on the cross
and taking our guilt and our shame upon himself
and thereby removing it from us.
Therefore, the channel between God and human beings is open
and we do that because Jesus has given us the right
to do it as the Son of God.
We come to God in the authority of Jesus.
I read a story that I think illustrates this issue.
A pastor took his young son and 14 of his friends to a carnival
And I can relate to that, having just been at one myself in some ways.
And so here they are at this carnival, and the father buys a whole roll of tickets.
You know what I'm talking about, the big red tickets.
And at each ride, the 14 kids would line up, and he would start doling out the tickets.
And each, one by one, the children came by and snatched the tickets and headed on to the attraction.
And three or four rides into the experience, father's just doling out the tickets.
he looks up and sees a kid he doesn't recognize and as the story goes the father asked and said
son are you with this party and the kid said no and he said well why should i give you a ticket
and the young boy turned around this is so deep the young boy turns and points to the man's son
and says he said you'd give me a ticket and so he did and if you see the spiritual connection
the father's son is like Jesus giving authority that the father might give out, that they might
come and receive from the father. That child gave the authority that this little child might come
and receive from that father. I love that image. It's touching, but it's real, isn't it? Because
that's in a sense what Jesus has done in his authority, gives us the opportunity and the
privilege of coming right into the throne room of God. And God gives, and we might receive.
When you're truly praying, friends, in Jesus' name, you're cognizant of the costliness
of prayer. You realize what it costs Jesus to have you come before God. And from that position,
you come desiring that your prayers are lining up with what God is doing
and his intention for your life.
You see, prayer is not something to be trifled with.
Prayer is powerful, and prayer changes things.
And most notably, it will change the one who is praying.
So look out, friends, because as you come into the throne room,
you will leave different.
And that's good. That's good.
So, do you always tack on in Jesus' name at the end of every prayer?
I don't think it's necessary to say it as if it's some little formula,
but if you've got the right attitude, I think it's a good idea to remind you
in what authority, in whose authority, do you come to the throne room.
You can put it on the front end.
Dear Father, I come in Jesus' name, by his authority,
and thank you that my might ask of these things, and such and such.
And then amen.
See, amen is simply a word that says,
Yes, so be it.
That's what I want.
That's what's happening.
Amen, it says in Greek.
Yes.
I think it's a good idea that we might say it over and over, though,
to remind us in whose authority we come.
In Jesus' authority.
And so, friends, I wrap this up by saying this,
that effectual prayer comes from an honest relationship with God.
And you might ask yourself, am I being honest with God?
Do I really know God?
Do I really know God?
Do I know Jesus and am I walking with Him
that I might come into the throne room of God
and honestly connect with the Heavenly Father?
That's an honest relationship.
Do you honestly desire the things of Scripture
to be what your heart is all about?
That's an honest relationship with God.
Number two is a forgiving spirit,
a forgiving attitude towards others.
Are you asking God to bless you
and yet you are just full of bitterness
and rage towards somebody else?
Friends, it doesn't work that way.
God blesses a clean heart.
And if we're holding on to unforgiveness and bitterness,
it must be confessed and let go of.
Do you have a selfish heart?
Because God wants us to have a generous heart.
One that gives to others as God gives to us.
And finally, we pray by the authority that Jesus gives us
in his name, in his authority.
Prayer, my friends and family,
is an incredible privilege of a Christian.
It's the lifeblood of our spiritual life.
It's the channel for God's blessing in this world.
And I just want to ask this last question.
Are you ready for that kind of adventure?
Are you ready to truly take off on that adventure
and to learn to pray?
As Jesus said, I conclude,
Lord, teach us to pray.
Lord, teach us to pray.
Let's pray.
Lord, our Father, teach us to pray.
Lord, teach us to pray what it means to pray in Jesus' name and by his authority.
Lord, teach us to pray with generous hearts.
Lord, teach us to pray with an attitude of humility and forgiveness towards others.
Lord, teach us to pray in an honest relationship with you.
Father, I pray that your spirit would come this morning
and manifest itself in moving in our lives
and going deep into each person.
And if need be, to prick our conscience
and to make us aware of where we need to change,
that these issues that we've looked at
might become reality for us.
So Holy Spirit, I pray that you will move amongst us,
including me, and show us how to get on the right track,
what attitudes need to be exhibited,
how we are to fall in line with what you're doing in our lives.
So have your way, Lord, with us.
Thank you, Jesus, for the incredible privilege
of coming into the throne room of grace.
And thank you for the incredible sacrifice
that you enacted on our behalf.
And Father, thank you for creating us,
for giving us so much,
and providing access to you,
that we're not lost, that we're not separate from you,
but that we are able to come and to say Abba,
to say Daddy, to the King of the Universe.
Thank you.
Now may these truths become real in our lives,
and may Fullerton First Baptist continue to be a praying church,
a church that seeks you,
a church that seeks your power
and calls it down in prayer
and a church that is seeking to be transformed
by being in prayer with you
so have your way
and accomplish your purposes we pray
in Jesus name
by his authority we pray together
amen and amen
