Thank you, David. Beautiful rendition. It's difficult sometimes to mount the pulpit and share with you in the midst of some of our amazing highs
and some really challenging lows that we've hit in the past few weeks. And I realize that many of us are here with some real mixed emotions
and struggling with some things, and I am too. And I've also learned in the past week and some things I've learned in the Thursday night meeting
and so forth that something I've known for a long time, I am the most self-protective person
you've ever met. And that makes me really slick, but it also makes me really hard to get to know.
And so part of this process is I just seem like I'm just doing great going through.
In reality, I don't even go to my emotions because I've learned not to. And so it's been
a really difficult thing for some of you trying to figure out, are you human inside there?
and I want to let you know that's a
scenario that God is working on with me.
I need your prayers. I need
your support as we walk
through this together because that's an area of
growth and challenge for me. My wife
says that, Kirk, I
need to do emotional excavation on
you. That's the term in our
family. That means they're in
there somewhere but I got to get to it
and give me a big shovel, I'm going to go after it.
And we've been married now 10 years
and she's just getting it a little bit and I'm
just comfortable just a little bit letting
it out and some things in the past week have really helped me struggle with those things and
so I want to let you know that we're on a journey together and that I have got a long way to grow
and we all do and so if I have not met you emotionally in some places I'm learning how to do
that so walk with me be patient with me and pray for me because I need your prayers I need your
support I need your help I got a long way to grow in some things I have learned that in the midst of
all these challenges, though, that I have learned that what I know to preach is true, that God is
in control. And I've come back to that and said, Lord, I don't understand all of this. In fact,
there are some things that I have been trying to avoid for over a year, and it all comes down in
this month. That is not my intention, never has been, but I'm actually saying, God, it's your
problem because you know I tried to do everything to not end up exactly as it was. So then I have
to come back and say, well, you preach God's in control. Now, Kirk, you got to live it. And so I
am. The Israelites went through a lot of bumps along the way and God was always in control and
always had a plan for them. And I believe that is true of us. And so I stand here this morning
asking that you pray for us and pray for me. And we'll continue to see how God will take care of
us and walk us through together, for we are one church desiring to do His will the best way that
we can. I do want to say, too, I love this congregation, and I may not always show it in
the most emotionally connective way, but you have meant more to me in six years than you'll ever
know. Maybe that's the sad part, as you may not have known, but I really love you all, and we
don't always agree on everything. We really, we have good fellowship together, and it's been great,
and let's keep it going.
So amen to that.
I want to tell you about an experience
a couple weeks ago.
I was driving up to a friend's cabin
up at Big Bear
to do some praying and some writing
for one evening.
Kind of leave on an afternoon
and come back the next morning
kind of a thing.
And while I was driving up there,
for some reason,
there was a fog bank
that settled over the mountain.
And about 3,000 feet,
I just hit pea soup fog
just inches from the headlights.
And it was scary thinking we're in springtime.
You're thinking it's going to be kind of windows down,
shorts and t-shirts, and I'm freezing.
And I'm in this fog bank.
And I thought, aha, I'll turn on my fog lights
since I rarely use them, right?
And it's a newer car to me and I'd never used them before.
So I flipped this little switch thinking I'm going to be so with it
with my new fog lamps.
and they were aimed to the side and up in the hill.
And they did me absolutely no good whatsoever.
And they were shining way up over here.
I still couldn't see out here.
And I realized this is a very scary situation.
Sometimes in the church we can feel that way too.
We feel like there's a pea soup fog bank
and for whatever reason our lights aren't cutting through
and we want to see a little further down the road.
That is my desire this morning,
is that I give you some more vision down the road of where we're going.
But I also know that God doesn't always show us the entire picture either.
If He had shown me things in my life or where I would be now years ago,
I would have bailed out a long time ago.
It's in the process of giving us just enough to keep us focused
but not too much to scare us away but i want to show you some things i want to use the best
headlights we can to cut through and show you what i believe god is doing in our midst as we
move down the road you know friends in this pea soup fog bank that our culture is today as well
we need to focus on jesus christ the north star we are sailing on seas of murky truth
We're sailing on seas where people have no sense of rooting or footing,
and we must be rooted in Jesus and Jesus alone.
And on that sea, we will sail and we'll be victorious.
The ministry board went on retreat a while back to sort out,
God, what are the non-negotiables from you?
What is the mission that you want us to be about?
And we determine that the mission, we're using this language,
that the mission is the timeless purpose for the church.
It has always been the mission.
It is today.
It always will be until Jesus comes back, and it's all over.
The timeless mission.
And we've over and over been sharing these texts,
and we want us to get rooted in them again today.
The New Testament model for the church is summarized in Jesus
words in two different sections of Matthew. In 1st Matthew
22, Jesus replied, you must love
the Lord your God with all of your heart,
all of your soul, and all of your mind.
This is the first and the greatest commandment.
And a second is equally important. Love your neighbor
as yourself. And all the other commandments and all
the demands of the prophets are based on these two commandments. Love the Lord your God. Love
your neighbor as yourself. At the end of Matthew 28, Jesus also said these amazing words. Jesus
said, I have been given complete authority in heaven and on earth. Therefore, go and make
disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy
Spirit. Teach these new disciples to obey all the commands I have given you, and be sure of this,
I am with you always, even to the end of the age. Jesus said he is with us always,
the end of the age amen i i get encouraged by hearing that again and again he is with us
always in whatever great things are happening in life he is with you always in the challenging
moments he is with you always and from those texts we see as you study all the new testament
texts on the church you see them boil down to these five principles that come out of these
two texts the mission of the church is and has always been and always will be to worship to reach
out to have meaningful community to teach and have discipleship and to do ministry to meet needs
through our spiritual gifts in the body and outside and over the course of a number of board
meetings we struggled with a statement that would capture those five purposes the same five purposes
that this church was founded on in 1893,
the same principles, different language,
but they've always been a part of this church
because they've always been a part
of the New Testament model of the church.
And I'm proud of this church
for having been built
on these wonderful foundations.
Fullerton First Baptist Church
is about celebrating God,
loving others,
reaching beyond our own,
mentoring lives in His Spirit,
and living the lives for which we were made.
There they are.
Worship, community, outreach, discipleship, ministry.
They're all there.
And I want us to have that statement committed into our souls
so we can just know it.
And somebody asks, well, what is your church about?
You can just say, we're about.
And there we go.
That's what we're about.
This is what drives us.
This is what motivates us.
These principles are what balance us.
It's the mission.
And we feel confident that that's the mission.
And the next question after mission comes,
well, what are the core values
that will shape how you live out that mission?
Because you can live out those principles
in a variety of ways.
And we wanted to determine some key values
that always drive how we do those things.
And these values that we have come up with over the course of the past few years
and really crystallized on this last retreat,
they're not in any particular order of importance.
They're all important as we live out the mission.
But here are the values that we want and believe will shape us for ministry.
The first one that I've written here is that lost people matter to God
and therefore to us.
In my studies, I just ran across a quote from Paul Borthwick,
a pastor back east in the Discipleship Journal article.
He said this,
The Apostle Paul wished he could give up his eternal life to save his countrymen.
Charles Finney, the evangelist, wept at the thought of people facing a Christless eternity.
Dr. A.B. Simpson agonized in prayer over the nations where Jesus Christ was not exalted.
The great missionary to India, Hudson Taylor,
his nightmare featured millions of people tumbling into the chasm of hell.
Paul Borthwick then writes,
When we think about these people, we're put to shame.
Few of us come close to having a passion for souls like these men.
And he asks the question,
Can a heart for the lost be developed?
I believe it can.
I believe it can.
I believe it should be.
I believe we will continue to develop a heart for lost people
because God has a heart for lost people.
All of us at one time were lost.
He had a heart to bring us to Jesus.
He has a heart for others to come to Jesus.
Ephesians 1 says,
long ago, even before He made the world, God loved us and chose us in Christ to be holy and without
fault in His eyes. His unchanging plan has always been to adopt us into His family by bringing us
to Himself through Jesus Christ, and this gave Him great pleasure. It's always been God's heart
for lost people, that they become in Christ. Luke 19, the Son of Man came to look for and to save
people who are lost. It's the heart of God. If it's the heart of God, it will be our heart as well.
A heart for lost people. It will drive how we live out the mission. Another value that the
board felt extremely important was that we will do
ministry with creativity. We'll value
creativity. We look to the beauty of creation.
Jesus said in Matthew 6, look to the lilies and how they
grow. They don't work or make their clothing, yet Solomon
in all his glory was not dressed as beautifully as they
are. God has made all of us.
Now that's creative.
He made the mountains and the seas and everything in between.
He made this universe.
He made the galaxies.
He made it all.
And what a creative God He is.
If God is a creative God,
then we value creativity as much as God is a creative God.
Nothing we're going to do is going to be done by rote.
Nothing should be done boring and plain
because they don't reflect God's pattern for us.
look at all of us look around that's creativity all these personalities all these styles and
shapes all these beautiful cornucopia of persons that god has made and all the spiritual gifts
that he has distributed amongst us bespeaks his creativity it's a guiding principle for our church
We'll be a creative church as we live out the mission.
And as you look at the universe and the creation,
God said that the universe and the earth was good.
It was excellent.
He made it all excellent.
And so we will do ministry with an excellence,
continually trying to improve, trying to get better,
to do it to reflect the excellence of our God.
Jesus was totally committed to his disciples.
God is the creator.
Jesus in redemption.
The Holy Spirit empowers boldly for ministry.
All of these actions were done with an excellence.
And so shall our ministry be.
So we're going to value lost people.
We'll value creativity.
We'll value excellence.
We value prayer.
Prayer, the vehicle for communicating with God.
it's the lifeblood of the church prayer is the lifeblood of ministry pastoral cleverness
tricks and tools of the trade will never accomplish fruitful ministry unless it is undergirded
in prayer it doesn't matter how much we strive if we don't ask for god's blessing and oil through
prayer on all that we do we will go nowhere prayer is the pathway whereby we call down the power of
God. And God is interested in prayer, and so shall we. Therefore, prayer undergirds this ministry
and will be a core value as we go into the future. Number five in our list. Again, not in importance,
but just in our list, we value Scripture. Scripture will be a key value. The Bible says
in 2 Timothy 3.16, all Scripture is inspired by God
and is useful for teaching the truth, rebuking
error, correcting faults, and giving
instruction for right living, so that the person who serves God
may be fully qualified and equipped to do every
kind of good deed. That's what Scripture does
for us. We're a church that has always been founded on
Scripture, preaching Scripture, living
Scripture. We're going to be a
church that continues to value deeply
the Scriptures and the application
of those Scriptures in
our daily lives.
And I believe that when we bring Scripture
to bear upon the very issues
of our souls,
that God matures us therefore in Christ
and prepares us
for service in the Kingdom.
That will be our heart, to take in
Scripture, to apply it,
to live it, and
Therefore, let God be blessed as we serve faithfully and with maturity.
So we're going to value Scripture.
We will value authentic community.
Churches have community.
Every gathering has some kind of community.
There are relationships within a group of people.
The question is, is it authentic?
Is it real?
Or is it what some have termed pseudo-community, kind of pretend community?
We want to be a place where we are really known by God and each other
and are in a process of being matured in Christ
whereby we need each other in the journey.
And to do that, we have to know each other.
You know why that's so frightening to me?
Because I'm so darn self-protective.
And so this one speaks to me.
You know, we're all self-protective.
and actually we can't love truly and authentically from behind our walls.
We're going to have to be known.
I'm in a crown study right now studying total life stewardship
and it's so tricky sometimes because I want to be the pastor
and have it all together and try and be cool and collected
and yes, my subjects, that kind of mentality.
And that's terrible.
I've got to be in that group loving them and having them love me in all of my junk.
It's hard sometimes to let them peer into the,
what if they really see me for who I am?
It's threatening for me.
It's threatening for all of us.
But I believe as we really live
and authentically allow ourselves
to be known by Christ and by each other,
then we can love each other,
then we can strengthen and mature each other
instead of staying behind our walls.
It's a great challenge for me.
Pray for me.
Because if the church is going to be
about authentic community,
For crying out loud, the pastor better live it as well.
Amen?
Amen.
So help me, Jesus.
But here's Community Acts chapter 2.
And all the believers met together constantly and shared everything they had.
They sold their possessions and shared the proceeds with those in need.
They worshiped together at the temple each day, met in homes for the Lord's Supper,
and shared their meals with great joy and generosity.
and all the while praising God
and enjoying the goodwill of all the people.
And each day the Lord added to their group
those who were being saved.
There's our model.
Can we be the kind of church
that is living and meeting in homes
and gathering together
and enjoying each other's presence and fellowship
so richly and so deeply
that people say God is in their midst
and God brings people to be saved on a daily basis.
And that requires we get past all of our, I'm fine, how are you?
Fine, fine, great, praise the Lord, fine, fine, everybody's so fine.
But we're not.
We all need each other.
And we all need Jesus.
And somewhere we have to be authentic enough to admit what's really going on.
So we'll be a church of authentic community.
Scares me to death, but it's got to be.
Number seven, we're going to be a church that values high participation.
High participation is the antithesis of just sitting and soaking.
High participation says that we believe that all of us in Christ,
not just some of us, not just 20% of us,
all of us are called to maturity and to service,
using their spiritual gifts
and participating in the ministry
that God has for us.
We believe that if you are a follower of Jesus Christ,
then you will be active on that journey
towards maturity.
That you'll be active as a servant
in the kingdom of God.
It's not an option just to come
and kick back
and just soak it up.
There are seasons, friends, for that experience.
There are times to sit and soak.
but that's not the norm. That's a healing time, and sometimes we all need that, but as a rule of
practice, we are to be involved, participating, and letting God use us in His ministry, and so we're
going to value high participation and encourage all of us to be involved in the kingdom. That's
high participation. That's threatening too because it cuts up against a lot of models of church that
Let's say you come, you receive, you go home, and you rate the pastor how good was the service.
Good, marginal, not so good that day.
I'm not going to be about that.
You can still rate my sermons.
That's okay.
Just don't tell anybody.
I'm just kidding.
But really, it's not about coming and just receiving and going home and that's it.
The kingdom is living for Christ that others may see him, come to know him through us.
We're going to be a church of high participation.
We're going to be, number eight, a church that is culturally relevant.
We take our cue from Jesus because Jesus is the ultimate missionary.
Jesus was so culturally relevant to us that he became one of us.
That's about as radical and accommodating as you can get to share the message.
He became one of us.
We take our cue from Paul, the great missionary,
who said in 1 Corinthians 9,
when I am with those who are oppressed,
I share their oppression so that I might bring them to Christ.
Yes, I try to find common ground with everyone
so that I might bring them to Christ.
Finding the common ground,
connecting in a language they understand,
ministering in context where people really live,
That's culturally relevant.
Doctrinally pure, of course, but relevant in the world today.
And, of course, that always brings us to a critical challenge.
How do you be culturally relevant without accommodating to the values of the world
that we don't become like the world, but use the world to communicate?
And a critical engagement of those issues is the constant process
of a church trying to be culturally relevant.
It's the critical process that every missionary goes through when they get to the foreign land.
They figure out what in their culture, what in the language, what in the foods,
what in everything can they use to communicate Jesus
without being co-opted by the negative parts of that culture.
It's a missional challenge.
It's a critical evaluation.
It requires much thought and prayer, but it must be done.
and we will be involved in critical engagement
that we might share the message,
that people might hear it,
understand it,
and be able to make that choice
to follow Jesus.
The last value that we came up with on that retreat
and have been processing ever since
is that we value ministry
by the power of the Holy Spirit.
We recognize that without the Holy Spirit's power
flowing through us,
Our ministries will be totally bereft of any strength or impact.
We'll just be going through the motions.
And we don't want to be a church that just goes through the motions.
We want to be a church that does ministry in the power of the Holy Spirit.
Jesus said, my authority, take this message of repentance to all the nations.
beginning in Jerusalem.
There is forgiveness of sins, says Jesus,
for all who turn to me.
You are witnesses of all these things.
And now I will send the Holy Spirit
just as my Father promised.
But stay here in the city
until the Holy Spirit comes
and fills you with power from heaven.
Don't attempt ministry
unless you're filled with the power, says Jesus.
And the same is true with us.
So we're going to be a church that values always invoking the power of the Holy Spirit
in everything we do in ministry.
It's a value.
We look forward to seeing how God will play that out with us.
That's the mission.
Those are the values.
What does it look like, though, to do all of that here in North Orange County?
That's the vision question.
Mission is non-negotiable.
Mission has always been.
and mission is the biblical model of the church.
The vision is, what does that look like right here in 2003?
And vision shifts continuously.
And as the culture and the world and the community changes every few years,
the mission may change that fast
if we're going to be missional people that live out the vision in the community.
We've done some things to try and understand our community
and God's vision for this church.
We've been studying this community.
And we had a study done from the Percept group recently
that maps out the demographics, the ethnographics,
the spiritual receptivity and involvement of this community.
And we decided to look at a 10-mile radius from this church building.
And so a radius was drawn, and a radius has been studied.
And we've got an entire booklet, and we can make copies of that
If you'd like to see that, here are some salient issues that come out of that study.
We have discovered in a 10-mile radius of this church
that we are in an increasingly diverse ethnic community.
You knew that.
But what's interesting to see is exactly what kinds of folks are here in that community.
We are in a community of educated and established affluent families
and young and coming families, higher than the national average,
by quite a bit in those two categories in a 10-mile radius of this church.
We note that this community is increasingly becoming younger and younger.
We discern from this study that the community dislikes all contacts,
including advertising, mailing, and most vehemently, face-to-face.
They don't want it.
It's tough to share the gospel when they don't want to get it in the mail,
by phone or knock knock here we are they want to cocoon hide they've got challenges there
our community prefers if they were to come to church an intellectually challenging worship
style challenge for us most saddening to me was this and yet that gives me the most power and
purpose for the church is that from this study the best estimate they have is that half of the
people in this 10-mile radius have no faith involvement whatsoever. None. Totally lost.
Totally without hope. Totally without purpose. Totally without direction. Totally just sheep
on a hillside, lost with no shepherd, no God, no faith involvement whatsoever. And our church
sits in the middle of thousands and thousands of people
that are lost and going to hell with no hope
unless we radiate Jesus from this
focal point to these people. Our mission
field is right outside the door. The moment
you step into your car, you drive one block, you've just entered the
mission zone. Yes, we must do ministry around the globe
because there is a need for missions everywhere.
But missions is now as close to this door as it ever has been.
And friends, now that we live in Los Angeles,
a megalopolis that exports culture around the world,
and everybody wants to be here,
this is, in some ways, the center of the world.
If you think about it, technologically, culturally, socially,
what happens in L.A. will end up everywhere else eventually.
we are at the very center of what's happening in many ways around the world.
How we preach Christ and affect lives will have a worldwide impact from this place.
The opportunities are humongous.
We must rise and take the challenge.
Couple these things with the mission field being at our door,
with this reality that as Henry Blackaby taught us in Experiencing God,
your job he says as a servant is to follow jesus example do what the father is already doing
watch to see where god is at work and then join him and so we've been looking and studying god
what are you doing in our midst what is new where what are you seeming to bless and we see that god
is bringing a variety of people of all ages to this church but he is particularly bringing a lot
of young families, and I believe that once they are one to Christ and matured, they are the future
of this church and the church at large. That's why we need a families and children's pastor to
really begin to move in that area that God is bringing, and I believe that once we reach them
for Christ, we'll plug them into the mission of this church to worship, to outreach, to experience
authentic community, to engage in discipleship and maturity, and to serve in ministry. We want
to see evangelism in all the ages and programs for families and children and small groups and
affinity groups and to accomplish that vision we need everyone in this church to be involved
everyone and now i want you to hear me very clearly because i mean this from the bottom
of my self-protective heart and i mean this we need our mature seniors to be the mentors
and the prayer warriors and the leaders on this journey
that families would follow.
Because my generation, friends, let me share again
from something deep that burdens me greatly.
I'm 37 years old this month.
I'm the bleeding edge of what they call Generation X,
the boom behind the baby boom.
And as much has been written about the generation of the boomers
and all of that, this next generation also is a puzzle
because here's a generation that has been raised in homes
where there were no Bibles, no Christ, no church.
In fact, no mom and dad.
The fact that my parents are married and both love Jesus
makes me the anomaly, not the norm.
And that is sad.
And when I talk about my family with friends,
they don't relate because my parents are still together
and my parents love Jesus.
And that puts me way out there.
My generation was raised by latchkey experience,
raised on television from 3 to 6 o'clock,
raised on the values of the world coming through the tube for 3 to 4 hours a day,
and then seeing that everybody who commits to them eventually leaves them
and divorces and moves on.
Or pursues the good life, the education, the BMWs and the Lexuses
and all of those things at the risk of their own children.
That's my generation.
And they are a walking, wounded generation.
They are an addicted generation.
And they are now coming into their own,
raising their own children for the first time.
And they don't know what to do.
But they know they don't want to do what happened to them.
They know they don't want to repeat that cycle.
But they are bereft of any spirituality that is meaningful.
They are lost and they need mentoring.
They need you folks to pull them into their lives,
into your lives,
and just model family,
model Jesus,
model prayer,
model laughter,
model goodness,
model hope,
model everything that they have missed.
And I hurt for my generation.
Because if they're not one to Christ,
they will go through their lives completely devoid of Jesus.
And that's bad for the church.
It's bad for our country.
It's bad for the kingdom of God.
And for various reasons, God is beginning to bring this generation
and their little children and their babies and filling up our nursery.
But they need you to love them and to mentor them.
And it's one of my hopes to see our primetime ministries begin a training zone
for faithful disciples and mentors
that can bring in these people
and really love them.
And you know what?
I need some of that love too.
Don't count me out as well.
I can use it as well.
When we're mature in Christ,
our food is to do the will of God.
It's to give ourselves away.
It's to bless others.
That's how we get filled up.
And I really believe, my friends
and my mature ones in Christ,
that as you begin to give
to the next generation
and pour into them
and share your life, your experiences with Christ.
It will fill you up in ways that I cannot even begin to describe.
But it's scary because it involves us being in authentic community.
That's frightening for everybody.
My generation is craving community.
That's why they go to Starbucks and spend $3 a day on Frappuccino Latte with a twist
and spend hours.
You know what Starbucks' model is?
their marketing slogan is
they want to be the third place.
Home, work, and Starbucks.
They want you to spend your third time,
your third place in their place.
And you know what?
My generation just eats that up.
Because they're looking for community.
They're looking for a place to be
where they can be known.
But they're frightened to death at the same time.
They talk.
They have pseudo-community.
They want to really engage.
but they're also frightened to death
because if you love them,
everybody who loves them leaves them.
Church, we've got to love them
and never leave them
and show them what it means to commit
and love them through their pain
and point them to Jesus
because then they'll rise up
and be the next wave of leadership
that'll take this church
to the next 50, the next 100 years.
God is bringing them
and we've got to figure out
how to really engage and love
and I need you all.
I need this service predominantly.
I need you.
The board needs you.
The church needs you
to be that kind of loving, mentoring,
godly discipleship kind of leaders
that love this next generation.
And they are prickly.
Their hairdos are funny.
They're messed up
because they were sinned against.
And they need you.
And I need you to be there for them.
One of the riches of our church
is our multi-generational ministry.
and we are all, all needed
to see God's will accomplished.
And so my challenge is
will you join God in what He is doing?
And will we listen to what God is doing
and be a part of what God is doing?
Here are some things that God is doing
to encourage you.
We've been doing Owning the Vision
because we're going to own this place
back from the bank
and we're going to own this vision,
this mission,
these values in the life of this church.
And here is what you have pledged as a church over the next three years
in terms of paying down our debt and obligations
and paying off these facilities as a gift to the future generations.
That's why we're going to attack it so hard,
because it's a gift to the next generations.
You have pledged in this next three-year cycle $772,407.
Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord.
And I thank you from the bottom of my self-protective heart for your commitment and your stewardship and your sacrifice.
It will not be for naught.
It will not be in vain.
Bless you.
For those who still want to get on board, you are more than welcome to join into all this.
And every year as we move into this, we're going to invite the new families that have come to get involved.
And I still want us to see us pay off a million by the time three years is done.
But thank you for your commitment of $772,407.
I bless you.
I thank you.
Our men's basketball also won the championship.
You've got to see how that gymnasium gets used.
We hosted the league for all the American Baptist churches.
