Good morning. Christmas is coming, and God is good. May this be a wonderful season for you.
I'd like to begin this morning by just saying I enjoy a good story.
I had the opportunity in the past few days to hear some friends tell some really good stories,
and I always get sort of sucked up into a story.
I remember as a child listening to some of my Danish relatives one time tell the story
of when in World War II, some American pilots were shot down
and how they scampered across the countryside in Denmark
and our relatives hid them in a loft away from the advancing German armies.
And I remember those stories as if they were yesterday.
Those are events I watch in black and white on the History Channel, if you know what I mean.
But many of you experience those kinds of stories for real.
It's distant to me, but still when I hear the story, I'm captivated by the experience
and realize such amazing events have taken place in the life of our country and in many
of your lives.
Perhaps the story I'm going to begin with this morning will grip you because perhaps
you've seen this or know about these kind of stories.
But in World War II, during the Nazi occupation of Holland, the Nazis had planned to deport a group of Jewish children to the concentration camps.
And there was a Dutch resistance group that was formed, and they were going to do all that they could to save those children.
And about 300 people, children and resistance leaders, were gathered and they were hiding.
and somebody sold them out somebody revealed where they were and they were rounded up
and they were placed on a train placed on a train heading not to a detention camp but to a
crematorium and they knew it and so as you know the how those trains were packed with people
heading through the countryside despair filled the cars there was no hope whatsoever
what happened was just amazing because as this story goes after a few days of being crammed
together body upon body with no hope of life in the middle of the night the train stopped
and as the doors opened they expected to find themselves surrounded by guards with guns pointed
in their faces and instead they found themselves in beautiful fields with nobody around and they
found themselves in switzerland and not in germany they found themselves free what they did not know
was that during the night some commandos if you will had captured the train and essentially freed
the people and allowed them to go free in Switzerland, what was going to be an expected
death opened into new life unexpectedly. That's great news, isn't it? Can you imagine the feeling
of relief and joy and hope that came as they experienced new life expecting death?
when I hear the words repent for the kingdom of God is at hand that doesn't
sound like good news does it when you hear repent I love it when I leave maybe
you've experienced this when I leave the Hollywood Bowl and I'm coming out of a
wonderful concert and some kind of musical experience and I'm heading
towards the parking lot there's invariably somebody who's in a
microphone yelling something to the effect of repent for the kingdom of god is at hand
somebody's usually blathering at the top of their lungs repent repent and as a believer i walk by
and i think to myself those words are true but it doesn't have a a cheery ring to it i'm not
drawn at that moment into the story when you see signs at football games that say you better change
or else when you see signs that say the wages of sin are death it doesn't warm your heart does it
in fact those are true words but without full explanation they don't seem to have an offer of
hope anywhere in them. The message of repentance needs more explanation. And as we're going to see
John the Baptist, now this man could exhort people. This man could challenge people. This man
could get into their collective face. But as he did it, he preached good news. And it was truly
good for the message of repentance when understood properly is not a ride to a death camp as it may
sound but a ride to a new pasture where there is new life when understood so this morning the third
sunday in advent we await the birth of jesus christ and all that he brings and jesus did does
come he did come to bring us the hope of new life and for that we experience
great joy but as we're going to read today we must also be prepared for the
message that he brings and so we begin today in our text in Luke chapter 3
verses 1 to 18 it was now the 15th year of the reign of Tiberius the Roman
emperor. Pilate was governor over Judea. Antipas was ruler over Galilee. His brother Philip was
ruler over Iteria and Trachonitis. Lysanias was ruler over Abilene. Annas and Caiaphas were the
high priests. At this time, a message from God came to John, son of Zechariah, who was living
out in the wilderness. Then John went from place to place on both sides of the Jordan River,
preaching that people should be baptized to show that they had turned from their sins
and turned to God to be forgiven. Isaiah had spoken of John when he said,
he is a voice shouting in the wilderness, prepare a pathway for the Lord's coming,
make a straight road for him fill in the valleys and level the mountains and the hills
straighten the curves and smooth out the rough places and then all people will see the salvation
sent from god now here is a sample of john's preaching to the crowds that came for baptism
You brood of snakes!
Who warned you to flee God's coming judgment?
Prove by the way you live
that you have really turned from your sins
and turned to God.
Don't just say, we're safe.
We're the descendants of Abraham.
That proves nothing.
God can change these stones here
into children of Abraham.
Even now, the axe of God's judgment
is poised, ready to sever the roots.
yes every tree that does not produce good fruit will be chopped down and thrown into the fire
the crowd asked what should we do john replied if you have two coats give one to the poor
if you have food share it with those who are hungry even corrupt tax collectors came to be
baptized and asked teacher what should we do show your honesty make sure you collect no more taxes
than the roman government requires you to what should we do ask some soldiers and john replied
don't extort money don't accuse people of things you know they didn't do and be content with your
pay you see everyone was expecting the messiah to come soon and they were eager to know whether
john might be the messiah and john answered their questions by saying i baptize with water
but someone is coming soon who is greater than i am so much greater than i am not even worthy
to be his slave he will baptize you with the holy spirit and with fire he is ready to separate
the chaff from the grain with his winnowing fork then he will clean up the threshing area
storing the grain in his barn, but burning the chaff with never-ending fire.
And John used many such warnings as he announced the good news to the people.
Our story begins with a description, as you remember,
of a number of characters, leaders, who held the highest reins of power.
Now when you read that list in the future, I want you to think,
creeps. They were all creeps. All these guys had a tight grip on power, but they were corrupt
to their core. They had a spiritual grasp. They had a political grasp on the nation.
And in effect, through their rulership, a spiritual depression had overtaken the land.
You see, God had not spoken for quite some time.
No one in Palestine could remember, even if in childhood, they couldn't remember ever hearing anybody that had actually seen a real prophet.
There was kind of a spiritual malaise that had settled on the land.
And then the Word of God, and then the Word of God spoke to John.
And in the midst of that spiritual darkness, a light breaks forth.
A warm glow is realized.
A message from God has come and has taken shape in the preaching of this John the Baptist.
He was preparing the way, says the Scriptures, for the coming of the Lord.
Now from the book of Mark, we understand that John was a woolly, rough, prophet kind of figure right out of the Old Testament.
And the Bible says he wore camel's hair and ate locusts and honey.
Now let's be honest, wouldn't you love to get a glimpse of this guy?
I mean, here's a guy, no power tie, no stylish haircut, no Armani suit.
This guy was rough and tumble, ate bugs, and preached the Word of God.
I would have loved to have seen him.
And you know he made an impression on Mark as he wrote down his description.
But you think about John.
It's amazing whom God uses for his purposes, is it not?
Do you think if he could use John, he could use you?
He could use me.
If he can use that guy, he can use us.
He can use you.
Well, John was not exactly the glittering angel in our nativity set, was he?
John was just kind of a weird guy out in the desert, proclaiming truth.
I kind of think of him as a camel's hair Christmas card.
Not one that was nice and sweet and sentimental.
He's proclaiming the coming of the Lord in a really wild exterior, is he not?
And you know, if we saw him today, we'd think he was nuts.
We really would.
Unfortunately, we'd probably assume he's the same guy out preaching by the Hollywood Bowl.
That's the kind of character he was.
But there was something about his message that God used to cut right to their hearts,
and he cuts right to our hearts as well.
And here is what he said in a little different translation.
He said, essentially, being a child of Abraham, people, is neither here nor there.
Children of Abraham are a dime a dozen.
God can make children from stones if he wants.
what counts is your life is it green and blossoming because if it's dead wood it goes
on the fire and the crowd asked him what are we supposed to do and this is where he says look if
you have two coats give one away do the same with your food and the tax men came to be baptized and
said, teacher, what should we do? And he said, no more extortion. Collect what is only required by
the law. And soldiers came up and said, what should we do? No shakedowns. No more blackmail.
And hey, be content with your rations. And I see in that practical message some things that God is
saying to us today. And the first one I want to amplify is this, that faith, friends, is personal.
Faith is personal.
John is saying that your ancestry means nothing in terms of your relationship with God.
And to these Jews, John was saying that God was not impressed with their background.
He was rather interested in people of all races, all nationalities.
God's got an eye on all peoples, not just this group.
God's love extends to all of us and to go even deeper John was saying that you have to have an
individual relationship with God that your family your background your heritage doesn't get you in
with God I want to bring that a little closer to home being born in America does not make you
a Christian. Being born into a Christian family does not make you a Christian. Attending church
regularly, week after week, does not make you a Christian. I mean, I know people that essentially
believe, well, listen, I have to be let in because I attend the First Baptist Presbyluthi
Method Missionary Costal Maddox Church. You've got to be impressed with me, if you can say it.
Some people believe that somehow, well, my grandfather was a pastor, therefore that somehow
extends to me.
You can go to church all day long.
You can sit in the front or the middle or the back of this auditorium week after week
and think that was nice.
But it doesn't mean that you're a Christian and a follower of Jesus Christ.
being a good person does not make you a follower of Jesus Christ what John is saying what Jesus
is saying to us is a life of faith a life with God as your leader and your friend and your confidant
begins in a true surrender of your life to Jesus Christ a life of faith begins
and continues with a personal decision.
It's an act of the will.
It's a surrendering at some moment
that this is my new direction.
This is what I want to have happen in my life.
I want Jesus to take over
and I'll get in the other seat.
He can drive.
It cannot be done for you.
It cannot be done for you.
It is quite possible that some of you
in this very room have attended church for years you've done the right things you've tried to live
morally but you've never actually surrendered your life to jesus as an act of the will and god is
saying to you it is time to give your life to god through jesus christ it is time to finally
experience the power of the holy spirit which is the spirit of god dwelling in you and changing
you from the inside out faith is personal and this morning if you're sensing he's speaking to you
he probably is he probably is faith is personal John is also saying that a life transformed with
God is a life of faith that shows fruit John was getting these people ready for the coming of the
Lord and so he tells them to live ethically he tells them to turn from their old lifestyle and
do the right thing he basically says people with plenty share with other people tax collectors
take the right amount don't take more to line your pockets soldiers do what's right
you know all of these characters what john is saying is this he's saying look friends don't
abuse your power don't abuse your power a transformed life transforms how we relate to
other people people are not to be ignored or used or abused he's saying god honors those who honor
other people a life of faith produces fruit john was getting them ready for a new lifestyle
and that life of faith when surrendered to jesus it has something to show for it a life of faith
is active in doing the right thing it's not passive at all it's active it moves does your life
have the mark of god in it now as you reflect on this year does your life have the mark of god
moving and active and doing things through you if he can use john the baptist he can use you
he can use me does your life have the mark of God moving and active in it does your life look
different does your life look different from how it was a year ago and from five years ago and ten
years ago does your life look different compared to everybody else around you I get saddened when
I read in statistical analysis that when you look at Christians in the world and the those who are
not believers yet there really is no difference in behavior or attitudes or actions it makes me sad
because the church is to be the beacon of light we are to be a people that are different from the
inside out and John is preparing us and sharing that with us a life of faith is a life that shows
fruit and finally in this passage John is saying that Jesus is coming Jesus is coming as judge
And John describes this image of Jesus as coming to baptize them with the Holy Spirit and with fire.
And the image described is like Jesus carrying a winnowing fork.
If you didn't grow up on a farm, a winnowing fork doesn't mean much.
It didn't mean much to me until I studied that.
But the winnowing fork is a wooden farm instrument.
I imagine something like a big pitchfork.
And essentially you take the grain that's been trampled on the floor
and you throw it up into the air
and the wind blows
and the chaff that you don't eat
blows in the wind
and the grain then falls back to the floor
where it's gathered and baked into breads
and eaten and consumed.
Can you see the wheat flying in the air?
Can you see the wind coming along
and taking the chaff and separating the two?
That's the image that Jesus will bring about.
That's how the Spirit of God moves in our lives.
The Spirit's baptism gathers some
while others are left to the wind.
The message puts it this way.
John says, I'm baptizing you here in the river.
The main character in this drama
to whom a mere stage hand
will ignite the kingdom life,
the fire, the Holy Spirit within you,
changing you from the inside out he's going to clean house make a clean sweep of your lives
he'll put everything true in its proper place before god and everything false he'll put with
the trash to be burned friends i'm here to say that the baby in the manger at christmas
that innocent little child is going to bring the winnowing fork of judgment to the world
And that's not a mere sentimental scene.
This is God coming to earth to change our lives forever.
Forever.
Are you ready?
Are you ready?
Whose side are you on?
As I said earlier, when we hear words of judgment,
when we hear that we must change our lives, it sounds like a downer.
Judgment sounds harsh.
But with God, but with God.
With God, judgment can be good news
because with God, where there's judgment,
there's the offer of mercy.
That's our God.
With judgment also comes the offer of mercy.
God has always provided the way out.
The things that we've done wrong,
they don't have to alienate us from God.
You see, the hard-hearted attitudes we may carry around
don't have to affect our spiritual life.
Our lack of true commitment to God,
our coming and just being a part of church
but never really diving in,
our lukewarm experience of faith
doesn't have to hold us back
because, friends,
Jesus can transform your life
and make it authentic life in Christ.
Jesus can transform your life
and it can be an experiencing of a decisive experience with God's people.
Your life can be transformed into a passionate pursuit of God.
And the good news is it can start right now, right here,
right before this Christmas of 2002.
I want to close with this illustration that perhaps some of you might relate to,
but it speaks to my heart and I hope it does to yours as well.
It was a bright Sunday morning in 18th century London, but Robert Robinson's mood was anything
but sunny.
You see, all along the street there were people hurrying to church, but in the midst of the
crowd, Robinson was a lonely man.
The sound of church bells reminded him of years past when his faith in God was strong
and the church was an integral part of his life.
But it had been years since he had set foot in a church.
Years of wandering, years of disillusionment,
and a gradual defection away from God that he once loved.
That love for God that was once fiery and passionate,
it had slowly burned out, and it left him dark and cold inside.
One day, Robinson heard the clip-clop of a horse-drawn carriage
and approached from behind him.
And turning, he lifted his hand to signal the driver.
But then he saw that the cab was occupied
by a young woman dressed up in her finery on her way to church.
And he waved the driver on.
But the woman in the carriage, she stopped the carriage
and she said to him, I'd be happy to share this ride with you.
Are you going to church? She asked.
And the man, Robinson, was about to decline.
and then he paused and he said yes i'm going to church and he stepped into the carriage and he
sat down next to this young woman and as the carriage rolled forward robert robinson the
woman they exchanged the pleasantries and the and the introductions back and forth but there was a
flash of recognition in her eyes because when he stated his name she it sounded familiar
and she said that's an interesting coincidence and she reached into her purse and she pulled
out this little inspirational book and she opened it where the ribbon had been placed and she opened
it there and bent it back and she handed the book to this man and she said I was just reading a
verse by a poet named robert robinson could it be and he took the book and he said yes
i wrote these words years ago oh how wonderful she said oh imagine i'm sharing a carriage with
the man who wrote these words but robinson didn't hear any of that because he was absorbed in the
Words he had written a long time ago.
Words that had been put to a great hymn that we now know.
These words.
Come, thou fount of every blessing.
Tune my heart to sing thy grace.
Streams of mercy never ceasing.
Call for songs of loudest praise.
And his eyes slipped to the very bottom of that passage
where he read these words prone to wander lord i feel it prone to leave the god i love
here's my heart oh take and seal it seal it for thy courts above he could barely read the last
words tears streaming from his eyes and he said i wrote these words and i've lived these words
prone to wander prone to leave the god i love and the woman suddenly understood but you also wrote
here's my heart oh take and seal it and she said you can offer your heart again
mr robinson it's not too late and it wasn't too late for him and in the middle of that little
carriage in god's sovereignty he was brought before the reality of the truths that he had
written that yes he can come again and enter the life of faith and he turned his life back to God
and he walked with God the rest of his days prone to wander he was brought back
friends there really is a judgment coming that baby in the manger really is the judge of our
lives and it's easy for us to be sentimental at Christmas and to enjoy the pleasantries of the
season and i do as much as anybody else but there is a real reality that jesus is coming and will
winnow our lives and take those that are his with him and leave those to eternal perdition
for those who are not his that is the reality of christmas and there's great joy because he's come
to save us. But there's a dark side. For after we decide not to follow, we live out that choice
as well. And I'm here this morning as a preacher of the Word of God to say to you that if you have
never fully said yes to the Lord, you have never truly heard the call, you've come and experienced
church for years but have never stepped over i want to encourage you this day in a few moments
as we sing that song written a couple hundred years ago that those words might be real and
live for you today and that you would experience the power of the holy spirit to send upon your
life as you turn your life to him give your life to the baby who grows to be the judge of the world
and our lives so may this christmas be a christmas of rededication of saying i will follow
and may my life be a life that has lived in purpose that's lived with the spirit inside of me
that's lived in a direction following my lord may you hear the message of christmas
and may it fill you this day oh god is so wonderful let us sing those words as we stand
so I invite you to do so
and let's sing that as a prayer
and from the bottom of our hearts
come thou fount
