Good morning. We have a tragedy on our hands this morning. As many of you know, not the Challenger, the Columbia, was destroyed on re-entry yesterday.
And just join me in prayer for a moment as we pray for the families of those people that have been so profoundly affected by this disaster.
Father God, we don't see your purposes in this.
We just know that it hurts.
And we ask God that you would help clean up the mess of heartache and disaster.
That you would be comforting those families who lost loved ones.
And that you would be comforting the men and women on the ground at NASA who feel so awful about this tragedy, who feel responsible.
Father God, we ask that investigation would uncover the truth of this disaster quickly,
so that people can be at ease.
But God, we also ask that you would just simply be with the people who have lost someone they love.
We pray these things in your holy name. Amen.
I've entitled this message, A Prequel,
which is to say, the story behind the story.
Because the first verses in John's book, in John's gospel, are a kind of introduction to the bigger story, which is Jesus' story.
As most of you know, the whole idea of prequel comes from George Lucas, actually fairly recently,
and his recent reintroduction of Star Wars movies back into theaters.
These movies are meant to give history, or to borrow a movie industry term, backstory,
story, for the story that we all know, or most of us know, the Star Wars trilogy, Luke's
story, Han's story, Leia's story. And Lucas has done this to make the original three movies,
the original story, make more sense, take on a deeper significance. How, for example,
did Darth Vader become Darth Vader? How did Luke's dad become this half-mechanical monstrosity
monstrosity that reaches out across a room and can choke his bad
officers from a distance. I mean, how did this happen? The first three
movies, which aren't all that good, by the way, are here
to explain all that. So think of verses 1 through 18 in those
terms. Episode 1. This is the back
story for the saga, the great saga of Jesus' story.
I didn't have music to go with this, I apologize.
Yeah, you can hear it, can't you?
And we're going to spend the next several months unfolding this story as John writes it.
For a lot of you, though, this story is very familiar.
And maybe it's a little bit too familiar.
I mean, perhaps it's one that you've been hearing all of your life in Sunday school in one form or another.
And you feel as if you've heard it all before.
If that's you, if you feel like I've been there, I've done that, then buckle up, okay?
Because we're going to take you at pretty much breakneck speed through the Gospel of John,
which is the most intimate portrait of Jesus Christ offered in the Bible.
And I put it to you that there is no way to visit or revisit John's Gospel and Jesus' story
without this kind of slack-jawed, head-spinning amazement
that comes from reading this story again.
We're encountering the life and the personality
of our Lord Jesus Christ,
and that deserves a moment of silence.
For some of us, though, this story is brand new,
and all I can say is I envy you
because you're encountering this for the first time.
What a wonderful privilege that is.
enough said enough said the point of telling this story for both veterans and newbies alike
is that we will all fall more deeply in love with the lord that it describes
think of these next however many sundays this takes probably all the way up till eastern
as fullerton first baptist's extended version of a blind date all right we your scheming but
well-meaning pastoral staff are so convinced that you are going to fall for this Jesus guy
that we're introducing you to him again. We've set the two of you up knowing that Jesus's
irresistibility and chemistry is just going to do the rest, all right? We are confident
of this fact. So I challenge you this morning not to be moved by what we're about to discover
together. I say that it's impossible not to be moved. So that's my prologue. Here's John's prologue.
In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was with God
in the beginning. Through him all things were made. Without him nothing was made that has been made.
In him was life, and that life was the light of men.
The light shines in the darkness, but the darkness has not understood it.
There came a man who was sent from God. His name was John.
He came as a witness to testify concerning that light,
so that through him all men, all women, all people might believe.
He himself was not the light. He came only as a witness to the light.
the true light that gives light to every man was coming into the world he was in the world
and through and though the world was made through him the world did not recognize him he came to
that which was his own but his own did not receive him yet to all who received him to those who
believed in his name he gave the right to become children of God children not born of natural
descent nor of human decision or a husband's will but born of God the word became flesh
and made his dwelling among us we have seen his glory the glory of the one and only who came from
the father full of grace and truth John testifies concerning him he cries out saying this was he of
whom I said he who comes after me has surpassed me because he was before me from the fullness of
his grace we have received one blessing after another for the law was given through Moses
grace and truth came through Jesus Christ no one has ever seen God but God the one and only
who is at the Father's side has made
himself known. Quite an intro.
You see, it's easy enough to picture Jesus Christ in our mind's eye,
I think. I mean, whether we're Christians or not, Jesus
is that mild-eyed, skinny, bearded guy
with long, flowing brown hair that he uses conditioner for.
I mean, he carts around kids and lambs
and he's always smiling with this kind of slightly dreamy, far-off look
like he knows something that the rest of us don't.
You see, it's either this kind of picture of this hallmark, syrupy, nicey-nice Jesus
or it's the tortured, twisted Christ on the cross that hangs over like a Catholic hospital bed.
That picture at least has some reality to it, so I'll give them some credit.
Jesus really did die horribly on a cross.
though I think the real event, the actual crucifixion,
was probably too graphic and grotesque to carve into a little statue to go above your bed.
And we should stop and ask ourselves, though, whether any of these pictures are accurate, really accurate.
Was Jesus just another kind of airy, dreamy-eyed religious figure?
And is he like the statues of Buddha where he has this lotus position
and is sitting there with a kind of faint smile on his face?
Or is he just this poor, crucified innocent who hangs on the cross forever and ever?
Do the pictures that our popular imagination hold about Jesus Christ really inspire you?
I mean, think about it.
Are you moved by most of the portraits and sculptures that you see?
Did you ever see a picture of Christ, though, that made you just gasp in amazement?
I mean, just blew you out of the water?
I haven't.
I mean, never, really, never.
I've seen lots of images that mock Jesus,
lots of images that don't do him nearly enough credit,
nothing that would make me want to call him Lord.
But let's look again at the prologue.
For the only really true picture of Jesus,
the full-blooded picture of Jesus that I've found,
this is from the message.
Excuse me.
The word was first.
The word present to God,
God present to the word the word was God in readiness for God from day one
everything was created through him nothing not one
thing came into being without him what came into existence was life and
that life was light to live by the life light
blazed out in the darkness and the darkness could not put it out
that is a picture worthy of the Lord Jesus Christ
And here's a little bit of background about these verses.
When John describes Jesus as the Word, he's referring to an ancient tradition in Judaism
where the name of God was considered so sacred that when the priests and the rabbis read the Old Testament aloud,
they substituted another word for the name of God.
Because to read the Word, or God's first name aloud, was unthinkable.
I mean, imagine meeting President George Bush and saying, hey, Georgie, or hey, sport, or hey, slugger.
I mean, imagine that kind of stupid arrogance that would approach the president of the free world and treat him like a child.
And now multiply that by infinity, and you get a clear picture of what to Jews it meant to speak the name of God.
In some sects of Judaism, this was an offense punishable by death.
Your life was over if you uttered this word.
So we're way past the milquetoast picture of Jesus Christ that's so popular.
John, from the beginning of his gospel, is laying down the wonderful and terrifying nature of Jesus.
He doesn't mean for us to think, oh, that's nice.
The word was with God, and the word was God, past the catch of honey.
I mean, he means for us to go knock-kneed.
He means for our guts to turn to water with fear.
The word was with God in the beginning, and the word was God himself.
That's supposed to be as inspiring as it is terrifying.
To any God-fearing Jew, to anybody who takes God seriously, who holds him in awe, period.
Now John describes Jesus as the agent of creation,
the creator himself, the master and maker of all life.
Now get this, all matter, all galaxies, all subatomic particles, all DNA,
the complexity of the human mind, that was Jesus' work.
Everything that science uncovers, everything that it only guesses at,
John says Jesus did that.
Jesus, the word who existed before time, he still holds it all together.
to quote the matrix what a mind job how do you deal with that well the truth is you can only
respond to this in two ways you can say john you're out of your ever-loving mind nobody who
ever walked the earth had that kind of power you are a delusional fruitcake that's one very valid
response because he's not making some mild claim here or you can say nothing because there is
nothing to say to this just stunned silence you see are these verses beginning to come alive to
you now the real Jesus is someone that no portrait artist no sculptor could ever represent fully
not by a long shot now let's look at the next section of the of this this this introduction
this prequel again and we'll look at it in the messages paraphrased version there was once a man
His name was John. Sent by God to point out the way to the lifelight. He came to show everyone
where to look, who to believe in. John was not himself the light. He was there to show the way
to the light. The lifelight was the real thing. Every person entering life, he brings into light.
He was in the world. The world was there through him, and yet the world didn't even notice. He came
to his own people the jewish people but they didn't want him but whoever did want him who
believed he was who he claimed and would do what he said he made them to be their true selves
their child of god selves these are the god begotten the god born they're not blood begotten
they're not flesh begotten they're not sex begotten they are god begotten you see in this
next part of the prologue John our writer not John the Baptist he points out something as appalling
as the first part of the prologue is amazing God comes to earth bringing back all the infinite
power and goodness that he poured into the world when he made it in the first place he comes to his
own people the Israelites the people that supposedly had this long tradition of expecting
God, of wanting Him to come at any moment. These are the
people that wrote songs about Him, that had whole
religious movements dedicated to the coming
of the Word. God gives them the noisiest prophet in Israel's
history, John the Baptist. You know, do you remember Kirk's sermon
about John the Baptist? This is the guy who ate bugs and wore animal
skins and lived in the desert. I mean, he was a hard guy to miss.
and in spite of all this his own people didn't recognize him they really didn't even want him
i mean that is bizarre god the word the holy one the creator the one the hebrew people write books
about sing songs about build temples for he finally shows up on the human scene after all
that waiting and all that anticipation he comes as a human himself he comes as a jew himself so
all his people could best understand him so they could relate to him and next to nothing happens
they ignore him they turn on him they hand him over to their most hated enemies the roman empire
to do their dirty work for them to kill him it's sick it's it's it boggles the mind i mean what
kind of people would do that to god in the flesh and the scary answer is it's people like us
You see, a lot of terrible things have been done and said about the Jewish people
because they're considered to be the ones who supposedly had the biggest hand in this.
But let's not forget that Jesus died on a Roman cross, and we don't persecute Italians.
The point that John is making is that the world rejected Jesus.
We, you and I, rejected Jesus.
If he'd come to France in the 18th century, they would have guillotined him.
And then we'd have a whole different symbol up there.
We rejected him.
So John doesn't blame the Jews or the Italians or anybody in particular,
but everybody in general for this monstrous act.
John writes this plainly two chapters further in.
He's quoting Jesus himself.
This is the verdict.
Light has come into the world, but men and women love darkness instead of light
because their deeds were evil.
You see, John's take on human nature is meant to be as jarring and as jaw-dropping
and as head-spinning as the rest of his introduction.
The Creator came back to that which was His and only His.
And the people celebrated His coming.
No, the people went scurrying for cover like roaches in a cheap hotel room when the lights go on.
They even banded together with other roaches so they could try and snuff out the light.
The analogy is too harsh.
I mean, if you really think about it,
God didn't come as the Word in the person of Jesus Christ
to sort of stamp us out under his boot heel like roaches.
He, as most of us know, came on a mercy mission.
As John puts it, the Word became flesh and made his dwelling among us.
We have seen his glory, the glory of the one and only
who came from the Father, full of grace and truth.
from the fullness of his grace we have received one blessing after another this is not an
exterminator for the law was given through moses and grace and truth came through jesus christ
no one has ever seen god but god the one and only who is at the father's side has made him known
and knowing this we also know that it's completely bewildering the way most of
our fellow human beings, maybe even ourselves at times, respond to this truth.
God, the word, the one and only, throws a life preserver to his drowning people
and they reject it because, I don't know, they don't like the color.
Try a business analogy.
The world sits at home.
They're lazy.
They're unemployed.
They're demoralized.
They have a pile of unpaid bills rising this high.
And God shows up at the front door with a dream job offer in his hand.
The opportunity of a lifetime.
Full benefits, company car, great coffee, great salary, and eternal job security.
And we jump at the chance, right?
Some do.
Some do.
Many of you have.
Well done.
And we don't just become God's top drawer employees.
No, no.
We become his readopted children.
i love how the message puts this but whoever did want him who believed he was who he claimed and
would do what he said he made them to be their true selves the people they were created to be
their child of god selves these are the god begotten not the blood begotten not the flesh
begotten not the sex begotten but the god born and some get the knock at the door and they
they don't do anything and i don't know why i don't know why this is just a prologue you see
we at this church we want to give you the chance to do something that is is simple and that is
decide what are you going to do about the word becoming flesh and blood and making his dwelling
among us moving in next door are you going to ignore it well as the bible says that's been done
before? Are you going to mock it? Are you going to trivialize it? Are you going to doubt it? Are you
going to try and kill it? That's not very original of you either. It's been done. But that's your
choice. And if you make that choice, I guess the only cold comfort is you'll be in good company
because many people have made that choice. How about just accepting it? How about just accepting
Him. Like I said, this is only the introduction. This is only
the prequel. Maybe you don't have enough information to base a decision on
right now. That's fine. Stick around. Come next Sunday.
Come the Sunday after next and so on and so forth and you will learn about the Word
made flesh. You will see Jesus Christ in action. But
again, I leave it to you. I'm going to pray.
Father God, You are amazing. Father God, You are holy.
Father God you are mind
blowing you are beyond comprehension
and we love you God help us
not to make the same stupid mistake
of missing it when you show
up in our midst Father God
I know that right now you are here
you are here by the power of your Holy Spirit
and you are speaking to people's lives
Father God let them
listen I pray all these things
in the name of the word
your son Jesus Christ
Amen
