One of the things I've been thinking just in the past few moments is Christians live life differently because they care about those issues.
And they give freely to take care of people around the world. They visit prisoners through programs like ASK.
And so I'm thrilled to be able to share what a Christian looks like and to have these examples all around me this morning
of different ways we can be involved in living the kind of life that Jesus calls us,
a different kind of life.
And that's really the question we're asking in this series in Kingdom Living.
What does the Christian life really look like?
What difference does it make that we follow Jesus?
When we leave these walls, what difference does it make in the world?
And as a Christian, you're part of God's family.
And so the question I'm raising today is, what does it mean to be a child in God's family?
How does being in God's family affect our earthly family relationships?
The Apostle Paul wrote this to the church at Ephesus.
Children, obey your parents because you belong to the Lord.
For this is the right thing to do.
Honor your father and mother.
This is the first of the Ten Commandments that ends with a promise.
And this is the promise.
If you honor your father and mother, you will live a long life full of blessing.
And Paul, of course, is pulling from those Ten Commandments where it says literally this,
Honor your father and your mother.
Then you will live a long, full life in the land the Lord your God will give you.
Well, honor your father and mother.
All the parents and grandparents are underneath their breath.
You're all probably saying, yay, that's right.
That's the way it's supposed to be.
The question is, how do we honor our fathers and our mothers?
First, we have to understand this issue of honor and respect.
And that's a great challenge in our culture today.
The very word here in the original language, honor, has the sense to make heavy.
To make heavy.
To honor is to respect, to realize that what you're hearing
from your mother and your father is heavy, it's important.
They are important figures in your life.
But our attitude towards authority has changed significantly in the past 50 years.
Let's just think through a little dialogue about some famous television shows for a moment.
In the 50s, it was Father Knows Best, right?
What was Father portrayed like?
good-natured somewhat aloof a little bit unaware but a decent person then the 70s come along and
remember all in the family what was the father figure portrayed there bumbling and bigoted
and then we come to the 90s this is where i really pick up with it married with children
or the simpsons how are fathers portrayed there al is a lazy oaf and homer is not a bright bulb
either. In our culture today, respect is a tough issue. In fact, today's culture, respect is not
presumed, it is earned. You start out with zero and you have to earn it. Our legal system will
say you're innocent until proven guilty. In our culture with regard to respect, it's we don't
give respect unless it's earned and proven otherwise.
And I think that's totally upside down from how God
wants it to be. One popular author wrote this,
the problem with this mentality, the problem with this doctrine
is that few young people appreciate that the years
of developing wisdom from experience, survival
of hardships and challenges, and acceptance of
responsibilities is the ground for respect. We've lost that. See, the family is the place where
respect for authority is birthed and cultivated. Children are to learn in the family that certain
lines must be drawn, certain expectations must be met, that certain people must be respected and
obeyed. And how a child learns about authority in the home will determine how that child relates
to teachers, to coaches, to employers, to the government, and ultimately to God. So you can see
how important this is. Honor your father and your mother, said the Lord. God put that fifth
commandment in an interesting strategic place. If you look at the Ten Commandments, the first four
deal with our individual relationship with God. The next ones deal with how we are to relate to
the community. And so the community starts by honoring your father and your mother. But you
know, it's easy to develop a disrespectful attitude towards our parents as children. Let's
be honest. We're basically selfish and we want to do everything our way and we want everything to go
our way. Many tears in our family over things as children want things to go their way. And yet we
as parents, we have a bigger perspective and we put up with tears. That's what you do. That's how
you shape their world. As teenagers though, we think our parents are hopelessly out of it and
backwards so definitely at that period of time we really struggle with respecting our parents
as young adults it's easy for us to get busy with raising children it's easy to get busy with work
and to get consumed by work and we can simply ignore our parents and as middle-aged adults
it's easy also to see the new needs of our parents as they get older to become
burdens on us and fringe upon this hard-earned freedom and so we struggle as a culture with
respecting and honoring our mothers and our fathers but the principle here is this commandment
honor your father and mother it tells us that if we want a right relationship with god we have to
have a right relationship with our parents that they're connected so whether we're a young child
in the home or an adult with aging parents,
we need to honor our parents.
Bill Hybel said this, said,
What relationship has more potential
for both love and hate and joy and sorrow
than the parent-child relationship?
It's true, isn't it?
I'm going to first speak to children
and then we'll move on.
Children, how to honor your parents and God.
When Paul says,
Children, obey your parents
because you belong to the Lord
for this is the right thing to do,
he is writing that still in the context of this issue.
That in verse 21 of Ephesians chapter 5,
we're dealing with what it means to submit to one another.
And all the things that follow in that next chapter
come out of that principle.
How do we submit to one another out of reverence for Christ?
If you recall, Paul will talk about men and women submitting to each other.
And then he moves into slaves and masters and the work relationship.
And then he talks to children.
And he's saying, children, if you're living with your parents,
you need to cooperate and honor and respect and love your parents.
Now when I say that in today's culture, I also realize this.
I realize that for some of our young people,
there are parents, and I know of them, that are abusive.
and sometimes to obey them is to do something illegal or immoral.
I understand that.
And I would say that we understand from Acts 5.29
that when Peter and the apostles were preaching
and it was illegal for them to do so,
they said this,
we must obey God rather than human authority.
Now having said that, however,
to most people, obeying your parents
is most often what should be done.
Because most often to obey your parents
is not something illegal or immoral.
It's they're trying to shape your life.
And it needs to be done with a good attitude.
Philippians 2.14 says,
do everything without complaining or arguing.
That's the verse for our family right now.
Because our children are learning to be negotiators
and we're having to work out this.
We don't negotiate anymore.
You're just going to do it without complaining or arguing.
You've been there, haven't you?
Yeah.
You want a dark cloud in the house?
I'm speaking now to those who are young.
Go and grumble and live ungratefully.
You want peace and harmony?
Do what your parents say.
I would just love it to be able to say, you know, hey, Brent or Ryan, would you take out the garbage?
I'd love for them to say, sure, Dad, be happy to.
Oh, it'd blow my mind, wouldn't it?
And sometimes it happens.
Sure, Dad, I'll do that.
But other times, it's a big negotiation, right?
No, no, we've got to get beyond that.
honor your father and mother that's the verse and do it without complaining or arguing i looked at
a calculator on the web i found in this estimate from a child to be raised from birth to 18
one estimate said it's about 177 000 you will spend the other calculator i looked at
said it's somewhere around a quarter million will be spent on one child from birth to 18 i'm not
even sure that accounts for college. But friends, children, just hear this, that your parents are
giving a lot for you, not to mention prayer and time and planning that goes into child rearing.
If you want to crush the spirit of your parents, just keep on taking and give nothing back.
So here's some thoughts. You honor your father and your mother by being grateful.
You honor your mother and father by obeying them. And you honor God when you're obedient to your
parents. And that's what we want to be about, is being obedient. Christians are to be honoring
their fathers and mothers. Very different from our culture, but that's what it looks like. Now,
for most of us who are adults, how do you honor your parents and God? How do you live out this
command when you've grown up? Well, I still think the text is saying that we honor our parents even
as adult children. We still are to honor them. In fact, in this text in Ephesians, the word
children there can also be understood to include adults because in that society the father
maintained authority in the family until they were about 60 years old or even until death
and so honoring was not just something once you hit 18 you it was different but it's for all of us
and certainly the fifth commandment in the old testament was addressed to the young and to the
gold. Honor requires care. Honor requires attention. Even totally independent children can
and should learn from their parents and teach them throughout life. To honor one's parents in
our day and age is to take care of them when they're aging. It's about listening and really
being there for them. We cannot marginalize the elderly in this culture. Christians in this
culture don't set aside their parents they don't marginalize they respect and honor them and keep
them in the family keep them close and honor them by asking and seeking wisdom from their aging
parents they have been there you know and the older i get the more i realize my parents have
a lot of good things to say surprise when a baby is born into the family they are totally dependent
on the parents. As she grows up, she becomes increasingly independent until one day she's
ready to sort of fly the coop and to start her life on her own. That's the God-ordained plan.
And the parents have a different path. They have gone from the vitality of independence in their
youth to the security of middle age and then to the vulnerability of being an aged person.
and when they reach that vulnerable age they become dependent again upon the children
they have raised and the cycle comes full circle i saw that cycle in my father who took care of
his mother we when i was young they flew her out from back east and she lived in a nursing home
because her medical issues were beyond able things we could take care of in our home but i remember
every week going with my father up to the nursing home and spending time and bringing her back for
a meal, and my dad would convince me to go back. I didn't always want to go back after watching
Disney, you know, with grandma there, but they'd feed me ice cream every week from Jim's ice cream
if I went back one more time, and banana ice cream on a Sunday night was a great treat, and so we'd
take grandma back to the nursing home a few miles away, get that ice cream, and you know, looking
back on that, those were sweet experiences, as my father loved his mother, and we had her part of
our home. It was a sad day when she finally passed, but I'm blessed to be able to have spent time with
her. My father honored her as much as he could. Some of you may know I'm on the board of Atherton
Baptist Homes, and I see how some adult children try and stick their parent in this place and then
somehow try and take the money and run. It's really sick, isn't it? Very sick. That's not honoring your
parents, does not to them at all. I think about Jesus on the cross. He was an adult, and between
the thieves was sin of the world on his shoulders. He sees his mother while he's hanging on the cross,
and he asks John to care for her. He takes her in, rather, and treats her like his mother and
cares for her the rest of his life. Jesus, in the midst of the
sin of the world, honors his mother by having her taken care
of since he could no longer do it. As adult children, here are some
ways we can honor our fathers and our mothers. We take care of their
physical needs as much as possible. We include our older
parents in the wide variety of family activities. They are
still part of the family, not relegated to the margin.
and we affirm our love for them on a regular basis,
they have given us so much, so much.
The text also says if you honor your father and mother,
you will live a long life full of blessing.
One Old Testament scholar looked at that and said,
you know, if you build a society in which old age has an honored place,
you may with confidence expect to enjoy that place someday yourself.
but if we create a culture where you are marginalized when you get over a certain age
we're all going to get there someday we want to live a life full of blessing let us continue as
christians to live differently and to honor and respect our parents for as long as we all live
they are wise sages they've gone before us we need to hear them respect and honor them i like
what this one article, the Mineola Messenger, printed out
on their children and their changing attitude towards their parents.
You might find this relevant. At age four, a child
says, my parents can do anything.
I'm still in that stage with my kids. I love this stage.
But when they hit age eight, it goes something like this. Well, there might be one or two things
they don't know, but you're still in there. At age 12,
They say something like, well, naturally, my parents don't understand.
Some of you are there.
At 14, child says, I never realized how hopelessly old-fashioned they are.
At 21, they say something like, you'd expect them to feel that way.
They are out of date.
At 25, well, my parents, they come up with a good idea every now and then.
At 30, I wonder what mom and dad would think about this.
At 40, let's be patient until we consult our parents.
Now it's getting good, huh?
At 50, what would mom and dad have thought about that?
And at 60, I wish I could talk it over with them one more time.
That's the cycle.
Adult children, can you love and honor your parents?
And maybe you're feeling like you haven't done that and it's too late.
Maybe you need to go before the Lord and say,
Lord, I'm sorry for being selfish and not loving and honoring.
He would want to bless you this morning
and pour out His mercy on you and fill you up.
But most important, I want you to realize this,
that no matter what stage of life you're in,
that you are a child of God.
That you are a child of the King.
And you need to live like King's kids,
accepting the fatherhood of God.
Ephesians 1.5, the Bible says,
God's unchanging plan has always been
to adopt us into His own family
by bringing us to Himself through Jesus Christ.
And this gave God great pleasure.
Do you catch that?
It has always been God's plan
that through Jesus,
He would bring you into the kingdom of God where you would be a child of God.
And friends, that will change your life forever.
Because you no longer live according to the pattern of this world.
You don't live by the powers of this world.
You live in the kingdom of light with the Heavenly Father as your Father.
And no matter what relationship you had, good or bad, with your parents,
you always have a Heavenly Father who wants the best for you forever.
And the challenge becomes, church, can you receive that this morning?
Can you receive that you have this heavenly Father
who loves you so much that He gave His own Son
that you might be His children?
Galatians 4, verse 3,
we were slaves to the spiritual powers of this world.
But when the right time came,
God sent His Son, born of a woman, subject to the law.
God sent him to buy freedom for us who were slaves to the law
so that he could adopt us as his very own children.
And because you Gentiles, that's all of us, have become his children,
God has sent the Spirit of his Son into your hearts.
And now you can call God your dear Father.
Isn't that amazing?
You can call the God of the universe your dear Father
because of what Jesus did and the Holy Spirit in you.
You're no longer a slave, but you're God's own child.
And since you are his child, everything he has belongs to you.
Do I hear an amen? Amen.
Before you came to know Christ, you were lost in your sin and disobedience.
You were alienated from God himself.
but now through the cross
and Jesus Christ
you are a king's kid
you're a child of God
and you can call God
Abba which means daddy
I can't think of anything greater
as a preacher I can offer
from the word of God
that you are a child of God
and I want that to make
the most profound difference
in your life
because you're free
to obey and serve
the heavenly father
you are loved
and therefore if you're loved by God
you have the freedom
and you have the ability
because you're filled up
with the Holy Spirit
to love the unlovely.
You have the ability
to love the imprisoned.
You have the ability
to love anybody
because you've got God's love
coursing through you.
Will you receive that?
I want you to leave this place
knowing that you're a child of God
and for that to bring joy
to your heart.
And no matter what you're facing
and there may be some large trials
but you have the power to deal with them
because you're God's child.
He's watching you
and he can call down his power into your life.
So will you open yourself up to his love?
You may not have had a father or mother
that taught you much about love.
You may not be able to receive
or even hear what I'm saying
but I am praying that the Holy Spirit
is softening your heart right now
and that you can really understand
not just in here but down here
his love for you.
That you'll receive it
and give it freely that you'll live with boldness that you'll forgive
liberally you'll love mercifully for you're a child of the king
never forget it you're a child of the heavenly
father he wants your whole heart and he'll give you
his whole heart so will you truly receive that
title a king's kid today will you truly receive the title
will you truly live your life as one of his
my prayer is that you will
my prayer is you will let's pray
Father may these words
not just be words
but may they be truth
that sinks
deeply into
our very souls and I
pray that because you have
called us and adopted us
and filled us with your spirit
as a down payment
on our life totally for you forever
that God that you would
pour out your love on us today
and that you would change us and fill us all up.
I pray that Fullerton First Baptist would be a congregation
that lives as King's children,
honoring their parents, honoring each other,
loving liberally because we really are transformed by your love
and that we live as your children,
obedient to you, dependent on you,
and discovering day after day your goodness in our lives.
So Father, may this not be just an intellectual discussion.
May this be a heart reality that Fullerton First experiences.
So Lord, I'm praying your spirit would come and have his way.
I pray you might do a healing work in the hearts that need a healing touch.
For those who need encouragement, may you meet them there.
Fill us with your joy and meet us here.
And may we receive this spirit of adoption, this spirit of sonship, daughtership.
Make it real, Lord.
Please make it real.
We pray in Jesus' name.
