That was fun. Traditional melody on a very unique instrument. That is a real ripsaw. Is that right? It's a seesaw. I saw that earlier and thought that is fantastic. You're going to hear more of that before the day is over. Praise the Lord. Welcome. We're glad that you're here.
And Happy New Year to you all.
It just seems like yesterday we were embracing 2002.
It seems like yesterday, to me, we were just starting this new millennium.
And already it's 2003.
And it's that time of year when we, for better or for worse, we look backward and we look forward.
We ask ourselves, what was 2002 all about?
What went well?
What would we do differently?
What would we change?
What are you going to do with the year in front of you?
I did some math.
We all start off with the same 12 months, 52 weeks, 365 days.
You want to know how it breaks out from there?
8,760 hours.
That's what you get for 2003.
525,600 minutes, if you want to look at it that way.
or 31,536,000 seconds coming up in front of us.
How will you use your time this year?
Well, I like some New Year's resolutions that were posted on a newspaper back east.
I'll share them with you this morning.
As people talked about thinking about the future, these are real New Year's resolutions.
The first is, I resolve to stop feeding the office plant leftover coffee.
I will use water instead.
I don't know what all that issue is that's there, but that's a real one for somebody.
Somebody else said, my New Year's resolution is to really start collecting Muppet and peanut stuff in the coming year.
I don't know.
Third one, much as I hate government intervention, I resolve to try and get a law passed
that requires every person on the face of the earth
to use their common sense at least once a day.
Thought that was appropriate.
I like this one.
As a theater major, I seldom have time to eat real food,
never mind eating with my family.
This year, I resolve to try really hard
to stop eating McDonald's and Wendy's
for two out of three meals a day.
If that isn't possible,
I promise to at least clean the remains from my car.
I hope that didn't mean eating the remains.
I wasn't sure, but I don't think so.
I wish to become the old crone that my body already says that I am
and stop trying to look like Barbie due to our culture.
Three more.
I hereby resolve to accept the changes occurring at work.
I will try to remember that the decision makers have a brain
and will use it if necessary.
Finally, I will cheer them if it works
and will not laugh if it doesn't.
Fair enough.
Somebody else posted this on the web.
I refuse to take responsibility for my actions and decisions,
to never take the blame, to not stand by my promises,
and to ignore the needs of the poor.
In short, I will become a politician.
Harsh.
And finally, I like this one too.
To become as wonderful a person as my dog thinks that I am.
There you go.
When you think about it, New Year's resolutions are basically items that fall into three categories.
And they deal with essentially these three issues.
Things to make us live longer and to look better, that would be one.
Or things to help us have more of whatever it is we want.
Or finally, things that help us to get along better with others.
Three different categories.
We could call them longevity, prosperity, and peace.
And I think deep down we all desire those things to some degree in some form.
And there are right ways about going after those things, and there are wrong ways to do so.
God's Word gives us guidance in how to pursue those things.
And so this morning, I'd like for us to think in terms of some New Year's resolutions.
If you have not made any, I've got ten this morning from the scripture that I believe is really going to impact and change your life.
And I want to say to those who are here perhaps for the first time,
and if you're looking for a coherent, consistent way to order your life and find meaning in your life,
The Bible is the place where you can find that kind of structure and meaning and purpose.
And I'd like for you to explore this morning with us.
As we look at a chapter you may not have looked at for a while,
but Proverbs chapter 3, in terms of pursuing longevity, prosperity, and peace done God's way.
And so I begin this morning with the prologue to this chapter, chapter 3 of Proverbs.
And the author says this,
My child, never forget the things that I have taught you.
Store my commands in your heart, for they will give you a long and satisfying life.
We desire a long and satisfying life.
Therefore, let us take these teachings and embed them in our hearts.
Now, I want to say this, that wisdom sayings from Scripture are primarily wisdom sayings.
They are not direct promises that you can hold on to and say,
God, if I did what you said would happen and it doesn't happen, I'll hold you to it.
Wisdom sayings are wisdom that give us general directions in life.
Do you see the difference?
I want us to be careful as we interpret these.
But they do set us on a course.
that is healthy and helpful.
And so here it begins.
Proverbs 3, 3 and 4.
Never let loyalty and kindness get away from you.
Wear them like a necklace.
Write them deep within your heart.
Then you will find favor with both God and people,
and you will gain a good reputation.
So what can we resolve?
Resolution number one, be it resolved.
I resolve, too, and I hope you'll join me in this, to never let love and faithfulness leave me throughout this year.
I will be committed to love and faithfulness.
If you want to be a blessing and receive blessing, all you have to do is live out of love and faithfulness in your life.
You know the people who want the best for someone else.
and before they want it from themselves.
Those are the kind of people who live out of love.
They put others first, people who do what they say
and stick close by through thick and thin.
Those people are faithful people.
Faithfulness is a wonderful quality to have and to live out.
And friends, when you bless others by living from those core foundations,
others can't help but be blessed by you.
and what happens is this over time you develop strong relationship with other people and when
you do you begin to experience the rich blessing and the kind of prosperity that riches and fame
cannot touch so how do you live out of love and faithfulness i believe you soak those up
soak them up like a sponge from the holy spirit you cultivate a life of faithfulness in seeking
from the holy spirit and allowing him to permeate your life the image from the scripture is about
wearing those qualities around your neck as a necklace it's intentional it's having them with
you at all times god blesses a life of faithfulness and love and i find that you will find that as you
do that your relationships with others and with god will deepen and become more meaningful so
Number one, live out of love and faithfulness.
Number two, trust in the Lord with all your heart.
Do not depend on your own understanding.
Seek His will in all that you do, and He will direct your paths.
I resolve to, number two, to trust in the Lord this year with all of my heart.
Will you?
I want my life to count for the Lord.
I want it to count for the Lord and not just what people say.
is worthy or valuable.
I want a life that is morally honoring to the Lord.
I want my life to have God's imprint all over it.
And I know that's your desire as well.
For some of you this year,
you may have to make some big decisions
about jobs and family and moral dilemmas
and all kinds of things.
Will you make those decisions
based on your own understanding,
your own desires?
Will you make them based on God's truth as revealed in the Scriptures?
What will be your basis as you chart your course this year?
Trust in the Lord with all of your heart.
May it be resolved that that's one of our resolutions for our year.
Proverbs 3, verse 7 and 8.
Don't be impressed with your own wisdom.
Instead, fear the Lord and turn your back on evil.
Then you will gain renewed health and vitality.
Resolution number three, I resolve to be not wise in my own eyes.
In our contemporary world, we have access to so much information.
My wife is a whiz at this.
She can sit down in five minutes, tap into any network anywhere around the world,
and produce information on any topic just like that.
She's more intuitive at it than I am.
We can get wisdom and information at light speed.
And our culture also has this habit of thinking that we,
with all of our wisdom and knowledge and understanding,
have the right to determine how we're going to live morally.
But God's Word says to ultimately trust in the Lord,
to have a healthy fear and respect for God.
Our own wisdom, our own understanding is still tainted and biased by sin
and by our own limited perspective.
I believe our knowledge and our wisdom and our understanding of things in the world has great value.
But God's perspective must supersede them all.
And we must turn our backs on evil, even when it seems right sometimes.
Even in the world's eyes, whatever is laid before us may seem right.
In God's eyes, it might still be tainted with evil.
Can we turn our back on those things?
Can we be not wise in our own eyes?
Proverbs 3, verse 9.
Honor the Lord with your wealth and with the best part of everything your land produces.
Then He will fill your barns with grain and your vats will overflow with the finest of wine.
Resolution number four for 2003, I resolve to honor the Lord with my wealth.
Do we take that seriously today?
All of life, all of life is stewardship.
What will you do with your money, your possessions, your talents, your time?
It is a stewardship issue.
God has given us all these things.
Will you be faithful to God as He has been faithful to you?
As we talked about last year, throughout the Bible, this theme comes up over and over.
Blessings for obedience, curses for disobedience.
We joked about that.
Blessings and curses, which do you choose?
obedience blessings disobedience curses it goes on and on throughout the scriptures and once again
this passage is part of that overarching theme if you want all that god has for you
faithful stewardship and honoring the lord with your wealth is a part of that and i want to say
this in addition friends can you imagine where this church could go in ministry if we were all
obedient and faithful in honoring the lord with our wealth in this coming year if we all got really
serious and really committed to saying lord i give you a tenth of what you give to me as an
offering back to you can you imagine the kind of income we could use for ministry here and around
the world it boggles my mind i look forward to seeing god do that through us let's be faithful
and make that a resolution for our year.
And I know you're sitting there and you're saying,
you don't know my financial situation.
My wife and I laid last night in bed staring at the ceiling for a few moments
thinking through new decisions about our own finances.
And friends, I know it's hard.
It is hard to make those kinds of decisions.
They have impact that goes so far in our lives.
I want us to be faithful as God calls us to be faithful
and allow him to bless as we do so.
Those are real decisions, and they're good ones.
They're hard ones, but they're the right ones.
Number five, my child, don't ignore it when the Lord disciplines you,
and don't be discouraged when he corrects you,
for the Lord corrects those he loves
as a father corrects a child in whom he delights.
Resolution number five, I resolve to embrace the Lord's discipline.
Good parents, you know that we have to discipline our children.
If we don't, we're in trouble.
Children need discipline.
Adults sometimes need discipline.
It's not about being mean or nasty.
It's about correction.
It's about setting them on the right path.
It leads to good decisions, to good directions, to good behavior, to good character.
And God desires the same for us.
And sometimes He uses discipline to sharpen us and sharpen our behavior and our character.
He wants us to be like Jesus Christ.
And sometimes God has to shave off the rough edges of our personalities, our behavior, or our thinking.
And sometimes he'll do it through somebody else in the body of Christ.
I want to encourage you not to shrink back from those challenges.
Embrace them, for they are for your own good.
Even just a couple days ago, I had a conversation with one of you,
and we were wrestling with some issues,
and you were able to gently and wonderfully challenge me and correct me
and give me new insight.
And at first I thought, well, what is this?
and then I realize this is God speaking to me through somebody else.
And I thank them for that.
I've grown through the experience.
I'm better.
I think more clearly.
I see my mistake and I'm moving in a different direction.
I appreciate that.
I think we need to always embrace discipline when it comes.
For as God does that, he's doing it for our good.
Let's embrace discipline from the Lord.
next happy is the person who finds wisdom and gains understanding for the profit of wisdom
is better than silver and her wages are better than gold wisdom is more precious than rubies
nothing you desire can compare with her she offers you life in her right hand and riches
and honor in her left she will guide you down delightful paths all her ways are satisfying
Wisdom is a tree of life to those who embrace her.
Happy are those who hold her tightly.
By wisdom, the Lord founded the earth.
By understanding, he established the heavens.
By his knowledge, the deep fountains of the earth burst forth
and the clouds pour down like rain.
My child, don't lose sight of good planning and insight.
Hang on to them, for they fill you with life
and bring you honor and respect.
They keep you safe on your way
and they keep your feet from stumbling.
You can lie down without fear
and enjoy pleasant dreams.
Resolution number six.
All of that is to say,
I will seek and find wisdom and understanding.
I will seek and find wisdom and understanding.
All truth is God's truth.
If it's true, it's true
because he set it up that way he created it that way it's his truth part of our stewardship of our
time and our energies is to be gaining knowledge especially in an area that god has called us to
minister and so my encouragement is this get trained learn understand apply be effective
Whatever you're doing, it's for God.
We're to be excellent at whatever we do for Him.
Let us seek wisdom and understanding about those things that God has called us to.
Ah, wisdom, the artful application of knowledge.
Wisdom means learning from others.
Wisdom means learning from our own mistakes.
Wisdom means learning from God.
God calls us.
He calls us to a life of learning and that shrewd application of that knowledge.
And He calls us to learn from His Word and to apply it, to know it and to apply it.
And I encourage you, sign up for our classes.
Get involved in learning and applying the Scriptures and seeking wisdom and understanding.
Proverbs 3, verse 25.
You need not be afraid of disaster or the destruction that comes upon the wicked,
for the Lord is your security.
He will keep your foot from being caught in a trap.
Resolution 7 for 2003, I resolve to have no fear.
Have no fear.
Friends, if we get honest, too much of our lives is often lived in fear
of what I call the what if, but what if, but what if, but what if this, but what if that.
Life is too short to live in fear. Life is far too short to live in fear. Peter had to get out
of the boat to meet Jesus on the water. You think he was afraid? Oh yes, but he couldn't have an
awesome experience with the Lord without conquering some fear what fears hold you back what fears hold
you back in ministry what fears hold you back in life how can you give them to God this year
how can you begin to say Lord I want to move away from fear and embrace life maybe you need to get
some extra help in putting aside fear that's all right will you commit to living this year without
fear trusting the lord all of your heart casting aside fear proverbs 3 verse 27 do not withhold
good from those who deserve it when it's in your power to help them if you can help your neighbor
now don't say come back tomorrow and i'll help you then so resolution eight i encourage you to
resolve this be it resolved that i resolve to help others quickly you had the experience where you
wanted to help somebody or you wanted to bless somebody or you saw somebody in trouble and for
whatever reason you hesitated and you thought well let me just do this and i'll come back and i'll
deal with that and the moment is gone it's over it's gone friends life happens on a dime
opportunities come and go in a flash if somebody needs help you might think of it this way you are
probably God's hand in their life at that moment.
Take it. Seize the moment. Bless them right away.
Don't wait. I've got to go figure some things out and then come back and help.
By the time you come back, it's over. It's done. It's gone.
Carpe diem. Remember that phrase? Seize the day.
Seize the moment. The Bible says to help them
quickly. Help others quickly. Number nine.
from verses 29 and 30 do not plot against your neighbors for they trust you don't make accusations
against someone who hasn't wronged you i sum this up in resolution 9 i resolve to live honestly
i resolve to live honestly the only way that community works at all is if people do the right
things and trust each other if we don't do the right things we don't trust each other the whole
community that we live in falls apart the same is true in the church live so that others can trust
you your neighbors your friends your church family live so others can trust you be an example of
truth and honesty wherever you live wherever you live proverbs chapter 3 verse 31 number 10
do not envy violent people don't copy their ways such wicked people are an abomination to the lord
but he offers his friendship to the godly i sum this up by saying this resolution number 10
live peaceably live peaceably there's no reason to live as a bully whether physically or emotionally
live peaceably and the word says that god will offer his friendship to you i want that i want
that live peaceably and what's interesting is these last three verses of this chapter
are again the concept of blessing and curses.
If you keep God's commands, there's blessing.
If you disobey, there's curses. Here it comes.
The curse of the Lord is on the house of the wicked,
but his blessing is on the home of the upright.
The Lord mocks at mockers, but he shows favor to the humble.
The wise inherit honor, but fools are put to shame.
I think we all want to live lives of longevity and prosperity and peace.
And I think these New Year's resolutions, I think they, as they come from God's word,
they provide the kind of environment for a life lived that God can bless.
And he wants to bless others through your life.
And so if you have not made any resolutions, you think they're dumb and stupid and all of that,
I'd encourage you to think again.
And if you made a whole list, I'm going to add ten more to your list.
Here they are.
Proverbs chapter 3.
Visit these throughout the year.
Come back to them in your own quiet study.
Reflect on them. Meditate on them.
Ask the Lord, how am I doing in living out these resolutions
for a godly life, a life that is blessed by the Lord
and that blesses others through the Lord?
I want God to bless your year.
And one of the things I want more than anything else for you as a congregation
is that you'll fall more deeply in love with Jesus Christ.
in my prayer time over the holiday break and reflecting
I've come back that I want us to fall more deeply
in love with Jesus and our preaching series starting in a few weeks
will come back so intimately to the teachings of Jesus
I want you to be able to say that you can't get enough
of Jesus and the more I encounter him in the scriptures
and in my own life with him I just can't get over
jesus i can't get beyond him i can't i can't live without him and i want us to fall more deeply in
love with him for he is our everything he is our savior he's our friend he's our confidant
he is all in all and as i think about what he did on the cross that i might have a life with god
that i might be able to live and have family and friends and a church family
he allows all of that because friends our sin was serious and is serious business our very thoughts
are twisted our very attitudes get twisted even if we don't do all the big bad things in life
a wrong thought an evil intention may never even be acted out still violates god's perfection
and because of that we're to be removed from him but in god's wisdom in his infinite wisdom
he allowed his perfect son to be the sacrifice for us to endure punishment that we would and
should endure to take it from us to allow us to have life i can't get over that i don't think we
ever really should and i think as we engage our first communion of the year i want us to say thank
you jesus and to resolve this year we want to seek him more than ever to fall more and more
love with him to live every day as if it were the last day and live every day totally sold out
committed no holds barred for jesus his friends he lived his life totally no holds barred for us
and he gave everything for us his life and he did it because he loves us because of that i want to
love him for the rest of my days and all eternity and i want us to all do the same so jesus we thank
you that you went to the cross gave your body gave your blood shed them as the perfect one and
only sacrifice for us that we might have the spirit of god the spirit of jesus within us
to be with us now and forever oh thank you and with that we pray lord bring us this year
to a deeper understanding of who you are of your teachings of your actions of your character in
your heart and we pray that we'd be people that just get so wrapped up in who you are
we can't live a moment without you
and are just so transformed by you
that the world takes notice
and whether they persecute us
or exalt us
doesn't matter
because we want to be so sold out for you
we come back to reflecting
on your love for us at the table
teach us Lord
how much you love us
as we take these elements
and give you thanks
in Jesus name, Amen
