It says it all, doesn't it? Thank you, team.
As we get into our fifth installment this week, studying Lee Strobel's book, The Case for Faith,
with a special guest this morning, Brenda Stuck was here.
That's Mark's sister, and many of you know her, some of you don't,
and it's just great to have kind of family playing together this morning.
So, Brenda, wherever you are, we're glad that you're here. Welcome.
Well, let's get right into this.
Take a look at this statement from Rabbi, I'm going to say this right, Shmuley Boteach.
I am absolutely against any religion
that says that one faith is superior to another.
I don't see how that is anything different
from spiritual racism.
It's a way of saying that we are closer to God than you,
and that's what leads to hatred.
Strong statement.
Let's take a look at something else.
R.C. Sproul, theologian,
said something in completely contradistinction to that.
He said,
Moses could mediate on the law.
Muhammad could brandish a sword.
Buddha could give personal counsel.
Confucius could offer wise sayings.
But none of these men were qualified to offer an atonement for the sins of the world.
Christ alone is worthy of unlimited devotion and service.
Boy, two worldviews coming in a collision course.
Can't you just see that?
Two radically different perspectives on this Jesus and the nature of truth.
And those are the topics we're going to look at this morning.
What is it really about Jesus, and what is it about truth that people are so uncomfortable
with today?
What you heard in those two statements, of course, is just a complete clash of worldviews.
One is saying that one religion is true and others are false, and some people don't like
that.
The other one is saying there's something so radical about Jesus that he's worthy of
all worship and praise.
Let me share with you this morning, and you've already heard it, I think the most outrageous,
exclusive, narrow-minded, non-politically correct phrases ever uttered, and you already
heard it. You ready? Take a look. I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one can come
to the Father except through me. Who does Jesus think he is to say that? God. That's
inflammatory talk. In some circles, those are fighting words. That is so narrow-minded. That
is so limiting. That is so non-tolerant. How dare he say something like that? He's a spiritual
racist. He thinks his franchise is better than all the rest. Now, where does he get off saying
stuff like that? And you will hear language like that. How dare anybody say something like that?
And how dare you, as a follower of him, make those kinds of claims?
In fact, Indian philosopher Swami Vivekananda, if I've said that right,
said in 1893 to the World Parliament of Religions,
and that, by the way, is a real Swami right there,
he said, we accept all religions as true.
And then later in that conference, it's reported that he said
that the real sin is to call somebody else a sinner.
Interesting.
Now, in our culture today, we are extremely relativistic.
We've talked about this a lot.
There's really no sense of right and wrong in our culture.
There's no sense that there's a truth for all peoples at all time.
And yet I would also say that in the past six weeks,
we have seen events that are beginning to challenge those notions
of a sense of universal right and wrong,
and we are struggling to wrestle with those issues.
But I want to say something this morning as we begin looking at Jesus
about the nature of truth.
because truth by nature is exclusive.
Do you know what I mean by that?
That truth by nature is exclusive.
If something is true, then something else is not true.
My Bible is black.
It's all black.
The whole thing has been dyed or painted or whatever it is,
and therefore it is not yellow.
It is black.
You can claim it's yellow.
You can say it's yellow,
and you can be open-minded and believe it's yellow,
but the truth is it's black, and it's not yellow.
So we've excluded yellow, we've excluded red,
we've excluded gray, and some other colors.
And I'm sorry if that's not politically correct,
but this is black.
It can't be both.
And we live in a world that bristles
with that kind of objectivism.
We bristle in a world that says that certain things are true.
But you know, in some ways, we don't live like that, really.
When you take one occupation, you exclude others.
When you finally settle on one spouse,
you exclude the other potentials out there.
I mean, we do those kinds of things all the time.
When it comes to faith issues, we really do want to go to the church.
Because for some reason, in that realm, the spiritual realm,
we don't want to submit to truth.
We want to kind of truly have it our way.
I think because one of the reasons we do that is because deep down,
I'm not convinced that people really believe that any of those faiths really are true.
I think we tend to look at faith and religions
as kind of a coping mechanism that helps you get by.
And so therefore, it doesn't really matter what you choose
as long as it works for you
and certain practices get you through the day.
It doesn't really matter.
So let's just assume they're all true
and kind of move on to some other issue.
I think that's kind of one of the underlying issues.
The problem is, as we're seeing, friends,
ideas have consequences.
That our ideas are not just held in some kind of vacuum,
that ideas have consequences in the real world.
And I think it's important to understand at the same time
that other religions are not all one big soup
and that they all make sense and you can sort of integrate them all.
In fact, I would say that they are also very exclusive
if you really get into the teachings of them.
There's a common misconception out there today
that all religions basically teach the same thing.
It doesn't really matter what you believe
as long as you're sincere.
They all are basically the same,
and the basic two tenets are this,
the universal fatherhood of God
and the universal brotherhood of human beings.
That's basically underneath all the religions.
Well, I want to say this, A, as my first point,
that the other religions are exclusive
because they don't all teach the same thing,
and if it's one way, it's not another way.
In the book we're looking at,
Dr. Ravi Zacharias is interviewed by Lee Strobel,
and he makes the comment that
only people who don't understand other religions would say that they all teach the same thing.
So when you hear that misconception, and I've heard it a lot, in fact, I would say people use
it as a way to kind of just blow off the conversation, let's move it to something else.
They all teach the same thing, let's move on. It kind of shuts down the argument, doesn't it?
But he's saying that only a person who doesn't know anything about them would even make that
comment. So when you're sitting there across the barbecue and you're moving the ribs back and
forth, you're talking to friends and neighbors and family, and somebody says, well, you know,
they all teach basically the same thing. You can gently say, actually, they don't. And have you
actually looked at each one? And you might consider reading some of the writings from each one,
because they're very different. Let me give you some examples. How can a Buddhist claim
that their faith teaches the universal fatherhood of God, when their faith doesn't even claim there
is a God. We've got a problem. Same thing with Confucianism. Confucianism is basically
a philosophy of life more than it is a true religion, and there really is no God in Confucianism
either. Those do not teach the same thing as all religions right away. How can a Hindu
claim that their faith teaches the universal fatherhood of God when their faith claims
that you basically are part of God? Cliff Kinectley, who's an author and a speaker, says
this. It says, the Bhagavad Gita, the Upanishads, and other books of Eastern mysticism all teach
that God is one. Everything is God. You are God. I am God. The tree is God. Good is God.
Evil is God. Basically, all those things are God. Therefore, God is impersonal. Therefore,
if he's impersonal, he's not your father. So see the problem again. When you look at
these things carefully, they don't all teach the same thing. So is God one and we're all
part of God, or is he separate? And you really can't have it both ways. He's either an impersonal
force, or he's a personal creator. And to sort of blend them all together is really intellectual
nonsense. But our culture doesn't want to talk about that. It just wants to move along. It works
for you. Great. Now, the brotherhood of all people. The only reason we can say that is because we
believe that there's a creator that's made us in his image. But if you don't have a creator concept,
then it doesn't mean anything to say we're all in the same brotherhood of humanity.
And different religions have different concepts of creation.
Like we talked about, some don't even believe we're separate from the creation.
God and we and the creation are all together one.
So right away we have differences on the brotherhood of human beings.
We have differences in the concept of God as Father.
Here's one thing to remember.
All the religions except Christianity teach basically the concept.
Here's where they are similar.
they basically say you have to get your act together to get to God.
That you've got to somehow do something, go through a certain system,
pray certain prayers, rotate a wheel, don't eat these foods,
take off these days and not work,
all these different things to kind of work your way into God's presence.
Pray five times a day, you name it, you've got to do things,
get your act together, and then God will accept you.
That's where they're similar.
They all offer different ways of doing that,
but there's the similarity.
However, Christianity is totally different
because Christianity says that we're never going to earn a right
to get into the relationship with a holy God,
that we can never be good enough,
that we're already broken and in sin,
but God has taken the initiative
and that God has done something through Jesus Christ,
who is God in the flesh, to bring us to himself.
And that, friends, is radically different.
Radically different.
Now, does that mean that other religions
don't have some truth?
Absolutely.
There's great ethical teaching in many of the religions.
You'll notice shades of Jesus' teaching
in a number of different places,
and I would say they have elements of the truth.
But I would say they don't have truth, capital T.
And we'll come to that in a few minutes,
why I think that's true.
Second thing, why Jesus now?
Jesus answers the issues.
Lee Strobel, as he's continuing to talk
with Ravi Zacharias,
Ravi brings out four interesting concepts
that all religions are trying to work with
and questions that all religions try and deal with.
And he's saying that Jesus is the most consistent answer
for all the questions, and there's a coherence.
There's a sense where in Christianity, it's coherent,
it makes sense, and it seems to validate reality.
When you look at the world, you say, yeah, these things work.
First one is the issue of origins.
And we've talked about this in the past few messages.
Kind of the concept, where do we come from and who are we as human beings?
The Eastern faiths say that we are part of God.
And if you kind of wake up spiritually and realize that, you can be part of God in some way.
And the challenge there is to say that you just haven't woken up to the reality that you're God.
But you know, deep down, I don't think we believe that.
I think you and I all know that when you get really honest, we're not God.
In fact, I would say we're alienated from God.
Christianity says we're creatures created by God.
with a will and we can choose good and evil
and that we have broken moral boundaries
and we need to be brought back to God.
It says we're separated from God.
And you know, I think our existential experience
would validate that.
Jesus taught that.
And in Jesus, he's the one who brought us back
to the Lord himself.
That's the origins issue.
I'm sorry, I'll add one more thing.
Jesus says this in Mark 2.17.
Take a look at this.
Healthy people don't need a doctor.
Sick people do.
I've come to call sinners and not those who think they're already good enough.
Friends, we're all sick.
We need a Savior.
The second thing is the issue of meaning.
Jesus said we're to love God with our heart and our soul and our mind.
And then we're to love our neighbors as ourselves.
If you worship God with all of your heart, soul, and mind,
if you spend time in worship in a love relationship with God,
that is an extremely centering experience.
It is one that will empower you to have more love, to love other people.
It's in worship that we find meaning.
We find ourselves in the right relationship with God
as the creatures giving back adoration that we were created for to begin with.
It fits with the way our souls were created.
It makes sense and allows us to love other people
when we find meaning in worship.
The third thing that religions try and deal with, and the questions are,
is where is the source of morality?
Contrary to popular myth,
morality is not based in the culture.
It's based in the very character of a holy God.
Because where do we get the universal notions
of right and wrong?
Where do we as people across the globe
have these deep-rooted understandings
that some things are right and some things are wrong?
If they're based on culture,
they should be all completely different.
In our intellect, we're trying in today's culture
to make that case.
But I think we're denying the deeper realities
that we all are made in the image of God
and have broken his moral framework that he set up.
Christianity has an explanation for where morality comes from.
The Bible says that God wrote it on our hearts
because he's the one who defines it to begin with.
The fourth one is the issue of destiny.
Different faiths have different interpretations
and concepts of what happens for our ultimate destiny,
the eternal life, the afterlife, and all those things.
the destiny issue is inherently bound up in christianity in history it's not bound up just
in some mythical idea that can be created by anybody and written down it's based in historical
reality that jesus lived on earth lived the perfect life performed miracles and then died
and rose again and gives us the power through himself to have eternal life forever and he's
been to the other side and back. Our destiny is rooted in Jesus' actions on earth and
his promises. Other faiths don't have that kind of experience. Where else do you have
a figure in any other religion that can claim to have died and come back and been proven
historically to be true? It's not there. Buddha is in the grave. Muhammad is in the
grave. Confucius is in the grave. You get the idea. Jesus, not in the grave. That's
why destiny is bound up in Jesus.
Now, I think about Jesus,
about that nature of truth in his life
and his teachings. They square
with reality. It's also interesting that you can do a
logic tree, and this was not my idea.
C.S. Lewis comes up with this, and it's so
brilliant. Many of you have seen this, and I want to share it with you
again. But here's why Jesus.
Jesus claims to be God.
Outrageous statement.
If he's wrong
and it's false,
then you have one of two choices.
He either knew it was false, and
therefore he's a liar and a bad guy because he taught a lot of things and he said a lot of things
and he started a movement and yet deep down he knew he was pulling the wool over their eyes
and that makes him a liar and a bad man or he's simply a lunatic he claims to be god and he's just
mentally ill i mean he thinks he's god does he well that's interesting you know we've got a padded
room for you, okay? It's one of those two if it's false. He either knows that he's lying when he
says he's God, or he doesn't know he's lying and he's just out there and he's a lunatic, or if it's
true, then he is Lord and he's what he says he is. And if he's what he says he is, that's a radical
statement that we have to deal with. Oh my goodness, if Jesus is God, then whatever he says goes.
So really for us, we have to sort of work that through.
If you think he's a lunatic, it becomes on your head to prove
why you think he was insane.
Or if he's a liar, you need to look at that angle.
I would say that the evidence points to him being Lord
because his life, his teachings, his miracles,
the prophecies about him, all fulfilled,
his death and his resurrection all point to the Lord column
and not the other two.
People can claim that they can be God, and they can die, and that's the end.
But when you claim to be God, perform miracles, and come back from the dead and say,
you see, I've been there and I'm back.
He's God.
And so when Jesus says he's the way and the truth and the life,
we have to pause and say, wow, if that's true,
then my life needs to come under that direction.
You see, it's only outrageous, it's only narrow-minded,
it's only politically incorrect if it's not true.
Because then he is just being a spiritual racist.
But if he is indeed God, he has every right to say that.
And he has every right to call us to accountability.
He's got every right to do whatever he wants to do because he's God.
It's only when it's not true that it becomes a problem.
But friends, if it is true that Jesus is the way, the truth, and the life,
we need to come under that and respect that and respond to that.
And I hope you'll come to that place of realizing that it's true.
The question will come up across the barbecue
as you're talking to a friend or family.
Well, if Jesus is the only way, what about those who've never heard?
If that message is the only way to salvation,
what about the people that never get a missionary in town,
that never hear it on the radio, don't have a TV or whatever?
What about those people?
That's a good question.
And Paul was actually wrestling with that implication
when he wrote these words in Romans 10.13.
He writes,
for anyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved.
But how can they call on him to save them unless they believe in him?
And how can they believe in him if they've never heard about him?
And how can they hear about him unless someone tells them?
And so, you know, from texts like this, we get the mandate
that we're supposed to be out there telling people,
because he raises that question, how are they going to know unless we tell them?
And we are challenged by Jesus to bring the message of Jesus Christ
to all the peoples in all the nations of all the tribes
with all the different languages,
we must bring that truth to people.
For there they will find meaning and purpose
and forgiveness and eternal life.
And it's the only place you're going to find it.
You won't get it in the church.
You won't get it in other faiths.
You find all those things in Jesus Christ and Him alone.
Jesus said in Matthew 29,
Therefore go and make disciples of all the nations,
baptizing them in the name of the Father
and of the Son and the Holy Spirit.
And we've seen that today.
Paul makes an interesting statement, though,
about the creation as a tool in pointing to Christ.
In Romans 1.20, the Bible says,
from the time the world was created,
people have seen the earth and the sky
and all that God made.
They can clearly see his invisible qualities,
his eternal power and divine nature.
So they have no excuse whatsoever for not knowing God.
Isn't that interesting?
He's saying that the creation itself
is a pointer that points you to God himself.
And we are challenged to come alongside and say,
you see what you're pointing to is the one who is the creator,
the one who says the way, the truth, and the life.
It's also instructive to realize that God is sovereign
over peoples and places and time.
The Bible says in Acts 17,
from one man he created all the nations throughout the whole earth.
He decided beforehand which should rise and fall,
and he determined their boundaries.
His purpose in all of this was that the nations should seek after God
and perhaps feel their way toward him and find him,
though he's not far from any one of us.
Friends, I want to say this.
We are responsible as God's people to fulfill our part of God's program.
We are challenged to bring that message to all people as much as possible,
and he's invested that charge to us.
It is up to God to judge those that have not heard that message,
for God is the judge of all peoples anyway.
But I do know this from the character of the God revealed in Scripture
and from Him I personally know that God is just
and God's judgment is perfect and just.
I don't have an answer for how all that works
because we're talking about a God outside of space and time
and He can put people in different times and eras
and all that is a huge mystery.
But I'm here to say that if He is outside of 11 dimensions,
He can work out who's going to hear and who's not
and He already knows.
I mean, that's way beyond our ability to understand
and all I know is he's challenged me to share the message,
and if he's got me, his beat on me,
to present it to this friend,
then I've got to be there to do it
and let him take care of the rest.
If we're to be involved in that kind of program
to present this truth, my final point is,
then what's our attitude then for our arguments?
Because one of the things that becomes a real turnoff
for people as they're talking about truth
is this issue of the attitude.
Talking about truth requires a certain level of maturity.
because of the exclusive nature of truth.
People can get really emotionally in turmoil over these issues,
especially when you're saying to somebody
that a path that they have followed, a set of teachings,
may not be the total truth.
That's very offensive in our culture.
And we have to be mature and wise in how we present that
because truth presented with the wrong attitude
comes across as smug or as arrogant.
and we're trying to be loving
and tell people the truth
but it sometimes can come across
as really distasteful
and a real turn off for people
who are interested in investigating truth.
So how we present that truth is important.
Now I realize for some of you
you're hearing this concept
you're saying but you know
truth is truth is truth
it doesn't matter how I say it
as long as it's said
deal with it, right?
And that's true
I mean truth is truth, right?
I mean it is.
But in a culture that's interested
more about the haircut of a politician
over what they stand for,
we've got to be sensitive.
You can say truth is truth is truth
and you deal with it and that's it.
But you know, that's not a loving thing to do.
You're saying truth,
but how you say truth is important as well.
I think we need to listen to that.
Mahatma Gandhi said this,
I like their Christ.
I don't like their Christians.
That's kind of ugly, isn't it?
Friedrich Nietzsche, a philosopher, said this,
I will believe in the Redeemer
when the Christian looks a little more redeemed.
Kind of ouch, huh?
Yeah.
You have the truth, but how we communicate that truth
and how we live out that truth
is as important as getting it out there.
So once again, our message needs to be consistent
with our walk and our talk
and how we operate with people in the world.
Those are insightful comments,
and I think we need to hear those.
And you know, Peter said some similar things.
In 1 Peter chapter 3, he said,
You must worship Christ as Lord of your life.
And if you are asked about your Christian hope,
always be ready to explain it.
Now listen to this.
But you must do this in a what?
In a gentle and respectful way.
And there's the clincher for us.
If you've got truth, you can slap people around with it,
or you can present it in a way that they can hear it
that is gentle and respectful.
because whether a person has a false doctrine
about a different religion,
they are still made in God's image.
God has given them a brain and an intellect and a soul
and he wants them to know truth
and he wants to use you and me
and we've got to do it in a respectful and loving way.
We need to do it with grace and with respect.
Now, let's recap for a minute.
I hope I've made the case
that all religions do not teach the same thing.
And if you don't believe me, which is fine,
but go to the books, go to the original teachers
and begin to ferret this out for yourself
because you need to understand
that they are not all the same.
And when somebody tries to say,
oh, it doesn't matter what you believe,
just be sincere, they're all the same,
you need to say, no, wait a second,
let's really look at that
because they're not all the same.
In fact, they're very different.
Jesus is exclusive.
Other religions are exclusive.
So if we're going to claim truth and be exclusive,
the challenge is, are we standing on the right one?
Why Jesus?
Because his life validates his ministry
and his identity as God.
His miracles validate his identity as God.
His teachings, and you'll notice the scriptures
talk about him teaching with an authority
that's beyond this world,
with a power that's beyond anything they've ever seen,
with wisdom beyond anything ever experienced.
His teachings validate his identity.
And finally, his resurrection validates his identity.
He said he would be killed
and he would rise again on the third day,
and that's what happened.
Jesus is either a liar
or a lunatic
or he's Lord.
I don't know how else to work that out.
We've shared the message of Christianity
answers for the questions
that religions are trying to wrestle with.
And so I'm here after all of that
to say boldly
that Jesus said it first
but Jesus is the only way to God.
It's the way that God
of the universe
decided to bring people to himself.
If it's not true
that is a spiritually racist comment.
It is non-politically correct.
It's outrageous.
It's just, it's ridiculous.
Or it's true.
And if it's true,
then we need to make sure our lives
come under his authority.
And so my final conclusion is this.
Where do you stand with Jesus' bold claims?
Where do you stand with those claims?
Do you reject them?
And if you do, why?
Or do you embrace them?
And if you do, how are you doing in your walk with Jesus today?
Where do you stand with his bold claims?
If you are reluctant to believe, my challenge would be this.
Is your reluctance to believe, is it intellectual?
Or is it simply a matter of the will?
Is it you have not seen enough evidence, and that's fine,
and we can present that to you?
Or is it you've seen all the evidence, you know it's true,
but you don't want to go there?
You simply don't want to change your life,
you simply don't want to go through the experience
of embracing Jesus as Lord for different reasons.
But it's an issue of the will.
It's on your head and not because of the evidence.
It's something you don't want to do.
And then I would say this,
what more do you need to know
or what more do you need to do
before you give your life to Jesus Christ?
And I really want to challenge us
to be intellectually consistent here.
If I can just have you hold on for a second.
I know it's warm in here
and it's been a long morning,
but I really want you to catch this.
Where are you on those claims?
because we're all going to be held accountable to those claims.
And if you're not ready to make that decision, I respect that,
but I want you to begin investigating so that you know what you believe and why.
Because it's intellectually dishonest to go out there and just say,
well, they all teach the same thing, I don't want to worry about this,
because these are eternal issues and they matter.
And friends, I'm here to say, I don't mean to manipulate you emotionally,
but we are not in the kind of time in our history where we can just put off these issues.
This is not a time in our nation's history
to just sort of religion doesn't matter
and I'll figure it out some other day.
I just like to party.
If that's your attitude today,
I want to encourage you to rethink that again.
Because I'm really glad given all that's going on
that I know Jesus Christ and he's my rock
and I know where I'm going to be
if things go in a whole different direction.
And I'm not trying to just pelt you with emotion,
but I'm saying, folks,
this is a time to get really serious.
And if you were on the fence this morning
and you've been kind of here and there
and you know these things are true,
I'm going to ask you this morning to come to Jesus
and to get serious with him.
Because he wants you to come.
He wants to bring you into his fold.
He wants to love you and give you his spirit,
give you eternal life,
and you'll be with him forever.
That's the best news that anybody can ever offer.
And if your will is resistant,
I would just ask you to question why that is.
Because now is the time to get really serious with the Lord.
He loves you.
And he wants to give you life.
Don't miss it, okay?
Don't miss it.
And if you have just been loving the Lord Jesus,
I hope this message has encouraged you again
and given you a boldness to share that truth to people.
Because I'll tell you, our nation is in incredible fear.
We are wrestling with the consequences of ideas.
We are wrestling with truth,
and we are wrestling with germs and things
that are taking people out, and it is a scary time.
And I don't know where this is all going to go,
but I know it's not a time to just kind of push
your thinking about eternal issues off infinitum.
And I would just encourage you to wrestle with Jesus,
the way and the truth and the life.
