Well, yep. Do you feel like you're rolled in here? We experienced, for the first time, driving on Wednesday before Thanksgiving. Wrong thing to do. I had avoided that all of my life until this year.
And I discovered that half the grandmas in California live in L.A.
The other half live outside of L.A.
And Wednesday night, everybody's going in and out.
And my goodness, that was a zoo.
And I am thankful to be back with this family, safe and sound.
No more road trips, no more kids, no more candy wrappers, no more nothing.
We're back.
It was a good time.
Well, Halloween is now behind us.
We're digesting Thanksgiving, and time is marching forward, is it not?
Can you believe we're now in December tomorrow?
Monday.
Close enough.
We're moving now towards the end of the year.
But we're moving towards the beginning of the celebration of Jesus come into the world.
We celebrate at the end of the year.
The beginning of the kingdom of God coming to earth in Jesus Christ.
And that celebration is such grand magnitude that our entire dating system is centered around this pivotal event.
Time. Time's an amazing gift.
What should our attitude be about time?
How should we handle our time as it's marching forward?
Where is it going and what should we do with it?
I ran across a study by Priority Management Incorporated
and they asserted that the average American will spend, get this,
six months sitting at stoplights in your life.
You will spend eight months of your life opening junk mail.
You will spend a year looking for misplaced objects in your home or garage.
It gets worse, you will.
Spend two years unsuccessfully returning phone calls,
and you'll spend five years waiting in line.
Someone once said, no wonder time flies.
There are so many people trying to kill it.
Isn't that true?
Some try and kill time.
Others learn tools and techniques to manage our time.
Why is that important?
Archbishop Fulton Sheen said this.
He said, every moment comes to you pregnant with a divine purpose.
Time being so precious that God deals it out only second by second.
Once it leaves your hands and your power to do with it as you please,
it plunges into eternity to remain forever what you made it.
A beautiful description about the importance of how we use our time.
What we do with our time leaves the legacy of who we are.
God will hold us accountable for what we do with our time.
And as much as time is moving forward, marching forward,
we cannot, for all practical purposes, change it or manipulate it.
Only we can make choices.
We can only make decisions in time.
The reality is that each day that goes forward is a day closer to the return of Jesus Christ.
Time marches forward and it's moving forward.
We can never go back, but it is marching towards the consummation of the ages when Jesus Christ promises to come back.
And we cannot change the past.
Steven Spielberg, in his marvelous imagination and characters,
Marty McFly and the Doc,
they can travel back and forth in time
in that wonderful film series, Back to the Future.
Unfortunately, we cannot.
We cannot go back and undo the actions that we regret.
We're always moving forward.
And the challenge for us here is to live proactive lives with no regrets.
We want to look back and see our lives consistent with our goals and our commitments.
For time goes in one direction and the legacy we leave is permanent.
And the reason we want to live by our commitments,
the reason we want to manage our time and use it for God's glory
is because Jesus Christ is coming back.
And that's the beginning of the Advent season
as we prepare for the coming back of our Lord.
Our friend Phil Tomic used to say
in all of his letters and his emails,
keep looking up.
Matthew chapter 24.
No one knows about that day or hour.
Not even the angels in heaven nor the Son,
but only the Father
as it was in the days of Noah
so it will be at the coming of the Son of Man
for in the days before the flood
people were eating and drinking
and marrying and giving in marriage
up to the day Noah entered the ark
and they knew nothing about what would happen
until the flood came
and took them all away
that is how it will be
at the coming of the Son of Man
two men will be in the field
one will be taken
and the other left.
Two women will be grinding with a hand mill.
One will be taken
and the other left.
Therefore, keep watch
because you do not know
on what day your Lord will come.
But understand this,
if the owner of the house had known
at what time of night the thief was coming,
he would have kept watch
and would not have let his house be broken into.
So you also must be ready
because the Son of Man will come at an hour when you do not expect Him.
So first point this morning, as we enter Advent season, chin up.
Chin up, church. He's coming back.
God came in the person of Jesus Christ, showed us how to live, died for our sins,
came back from the dead on Easter to give us heaven.
And by accepting who he is and what he did, we become adopted into God's family.
We become children of the King.
He came once as a baby in the manger.
Our hope is that he's coming again.
We just don't know when.
We don't know when.
The angels don't know when.
Jesus doesn't know when.
Only the Father knows when.
And when Jesus says no one knows, he means it.
So when the next author, the next filmmaker, the next radio, television personality
predicts a date for Christ's return, they don't really know.
Nobody knows.
Jesus says nobody knows.
100% of all predictions throughout all of church history about the return of Christ have been wrong.
And they all had good reasons.
They all lived in an age when it seemed like the signs pointed to the end.
And I don't doubt that it felt real.
And Jesus perhaps could have come at those signs.
But he didn't.
And only the Father knows when he's coming.
The reality is he will come back.
The when is a different matter.
What we can know is this.
Like in the days of Noah when the floodwaters came,
the people were carrying on with their lives as if everything was going splendidly and swimmingly.
And then it happened.
If you notice, they're carrying on and marrying and eating and drinking.
It's the everyday stuff of life.
And then it was over, just like that.
And that's the picture Jesus gives us.
We're going to carry on, and we're going to be doing the stuff of life,
and then boom, he's coming back, just like that.
Chin up, church.
We don't know when, but he's coming again.
Lift our heads and be ready when he comes.
In light of that certainty, the when is not important.
And in the light of that certainty, the church must, in Jesus' words, be prepared.
We must live our lives in case he comes in five minutes from now,
that we might offer him something wonderful.
There's a story told about a young couple by the name of Jeff and Janelle and their first date.
Janelle was expecting Jeff to show up.
She was dressed and ready for the date.
She waited patiently for an hour, and he didn't show up.
And so after a while, she finally figured sadly that she'd been stood up,
and so she went to the bathroom and took off all her makeup and slipped into her pajamas
and grabbed that pint of ice cream in front of the television
and kind of drowned her sorrows in ice cream.
And after two hours had passed, guess who shows up at the door?
Yeah, it's Jeff.
First date.
He took one look at her and he said, I'm two hours late and you're still not ready.
It's terrible, I know.
But church, that's how we get to be sometimes as Christians.
We expect Jesus to come and then when he doesn't meet the prediction that's on the bestseller list,
we just kind of forget about it.
We get discouraged.
We need to always be ready because he may come at any time.
We must never slouch.
We must always live expectantly.
We must always keep looking to the sky.
And as we move into this season of watching and waiting for the birth of Jesus,
we're also watching and waiting for the return of our Lord.
We must, in Jesus' words, keep watch.
Keep watch.
We must live like Jesus is coming tonight.
And it may not be for a thousand more years, or it might be this afternoon.
We don't know.
We don't know.
Nobody knows.
Only the Father knows.
We must keep chin up and keep watch.
In the tragedy of the 9-11 attacks a couple years ago, there was, for all practical purposes, no warning.
Nobody was expecting such a tragedy.
Thousands of people that morning got off the subways, out of the taxi cabs,
climbed the elevators, went to their offices, and life was simply over just like that.
And I've been thinking about this, and I've come to realize that one of three things can happen to us.
One, we can live a long life until our body finally expires.
Two, we can live our lives full of vim and vigor until it's cut short by an accident,
a health problem, or a tragedy.
Or three, Jesus can come back
and life as we know it will cease.
That's really the only three options we have.
We'll live long lives till our body gives it up,
our lives will be cut short,
or Jesus will come today.
If we get really honest,
we really don't know
if we're gonna even get home tonight.
If we're really honest.
In all probability, probably.
But we really don't know, do we?
The Bible says our life is like a blade of grass, a puff of wind.
It comes and it goes.
And so my question as I wrestle with this text is, if you were to meet the Lord tonight,
what would you present to Him from your life?
What would you present to Him?
What would be your Christmas present this season for the Lord?
from your life? Would you even know him? As I've said, time marches forward and actions cannot be
undone. So let us be careful that the record of our lives is what we want our master to encounter
when he returns or when we go to him. Keep watch, says Jesus. Jonathan Edwards, one of the great
early preachers in American history said this. He said, resolved, never do anything which I would
be afraid to do if it were the last hour of my life. If it were the last hour of your life,
whatever you're doing, would you want to give that to Jesus? What I'm getting at is this,
be ready, keep watch, means to live lives that are holy, that are lived rightly and faithfully
before God. Because disciples, we are to live like disciples. We simply need to act and to live
in a way that's consistent with our calling and our citizenship and be ready to meet Jesus
whenever he comes, whenever we meet him. We really don't know when that will be,
But we will live chin up, being ready, keeping watch.
Jerry Bridges, an author, said,
Everyone then who professes to be a Christian should ask himself or herself,
Is there evidence of practical holiness in my life?
Do I desire and strive after holiness?
Do I grieve over my lack of it earnestly and seek the help of God?
to be holy. As we move into this Advent season, looking forward to the birth of Jesus Christ
and celebrating Emmanuel, God with us, I'd like for us to take a kind of life check,
to look back over the year and ask this question, how is my holiness quotient this year?
Am I living my life as if I'm just going through the motions?
Am I living my life with vitality?
Am I living my life with love and grace?
Am I living my life as Jesus would live my life?
If Jesus lived in your home, worked in your job, how would he live?
That's the question for us.
we live our lives as Jesus would live our lives
in this area
with these conditions in this time
how would Jesus live your life
it's a good thing for us to ponder and ask ourselves these things
because the good news is
if we've not lived a life this year
that we're proud to give to the Lord
there's forgiveness and there's always a new start
that's the good news
We can start over and say, Lord, I want to get out of these patterns.
I want to live fresh for you because you're the God of new starts and new beginnings.
And so it's good for us to pause, to chin up, to keep watch, to be ready and to ask ourselves,
is my life the kind of life I want to give to my King?
We've experienced the fires recently.
they burn with intensity don't they there's something we're learning about those fires
though that as they sweep over and they burn up the dead wood and the overgrown ground that when
they sweep they're very powerful they're almost frightening as the noise increases and the winds
blow and they're very intense on this trip this weekend i had the privilege and pleasure of
being in the Yosemite Valley for a day.
What a beautiful place that was.
What a majestic, beautiful valley
carved by the glacier.
And you can see portions
where recently fire had been.
And we drove through some groves of trees
and you see the darkened stumps,
but you see the pure ground.
And you see the little saplings
beginning to poke through.
You see the new life beginning.
It's an amazing experience
to see how the fire and its destruction can clean away dead and decaying things and bring new life.
And friends, in our lives, too, we need to ask the Holy Spirit to come
and to burn away some of the things that hold us back from being all that God wants us to be
and allow it to burn away that that new life, the new saplings would grow.
Another way to look at this kind of life check, a different way, with a kind of botany twist,
is that there's a number of trees that look very healthy in the summertime.
But in the winter when the leaves have fallen off, there's this parasite that lives on the tree.
Around Christmas, we hang it up and kiss under it.
It's called mistletoe.
But when it's not being sold in bags at tree lots, it clings to trees and sucks the life out of trees.
It's a parasite.
It clings and hangs on and gets its nutrients from the tree and drains the life of the tree.
Friends, there can be sin in our lives that can live on our trunks like mistletoe
and slowly suck our spiritual vitality
right out of our lives.
And as we come into Advent,
as we look forward to the birth of Jesus,
it's a good time to look back
and to ask, Lord,
what is it in my life, if anything,
that's sucking down and out
my spiritual vitality for you?
Is it time to have the flames of the Spirit blow
and to consume the things that hold you back
from living a life before the Lord
that you'd be proud to honor when he comes.
And so I've got a series of questions I'd like for us
just to collectively ask in our hearts this morning
that we might give it to the Lord
and go forward and start afresh and anew.
How have you done this year at the job?
Your relationships with coworkers,
Have you given your bosses what they're due?
Have you worked as unto the Lord?
Have you been ethical in all of your dealings?
What about at home?
How are those relationships within your family, your extended family?
Are they healthy?
Have you, in the words of Scripture, have you provoked your children to anger?
Have you respected your spouse, loved, cared for, respected him or her?
And in your ministry, have you been faithful to God with the spiritual gifts that he has given you?
How's your stewardship of the things he has given in terms of ministry?
Have you invested yourself in the things of God?
Have you served him with joy or with a sour spirit?
Have you been straight up and ethical in all of your dealings with the church and with God's people?
Jesus says, keep watch.
Chin up.
Be ready.
He may come at any moment, and I want my life to honor him.
I want every moment of each day, as it marches forward, to be a gift unto God.
And the good news is, as you're wrestling with these things,
that if you're not pleased with how you've lived up to this point, you can start over.
You can begin again.
Because you can simply confess to the Lord,
Lord, these things have gotten in the way.
they've tangled up in my soul
and I want your spirit to burn them out
I want to start over
thank you for new beginnings
because like when that fire comes
the little saplings start over
and new life begins again
praise God for that
and my encouragement to you church
is as we come into Advent
and we're preparing for Jesus coming in the manger
and preparing for Jesus to come again
whenever that might be
that we might be diligent
to live each moment as if he's coming back,
as if he's coming back today, tonight, tomorrow.
And a way to do that is to be accountable to somebody else.
Too often, I think, we live isolated lives as Christians.
We somehow think between just the Spirit and me, it's all we need.
But you know, he designed the church that we might encourage each other.
The Bible talks about iron sharpening iron
as we encourage and rub on each other
and sharpen each other.
So we need each other.
And if you've not told anybody
that you desire to live in full integrity
at home, on the job, in my ministry,
and these are my struggles,
I'm going to encourage you this month of December
to find a friend and take them out
for lunch or coffee
and be accountable to somebody.
They can ask you and pray for you and encourage you that you'll live chin up, keeping watch, like king's kids.
No parasites of sin, nothing stuck on our branches, sucking our spiritual life away.
No, because somebody else is looking out for you, watching your back for you.
I'm encouraged by some of the men I spend time each week on Monday nights.
And we just go over these kinds of issues each and every week.
How have you been at the job this week?
at home in your ministry, been faithful, been real, been honest, and we share and we pray for
each other. That experience of the church acting as the church, encouraging each other is so
powerful. Can you find a friend? Can you find somebody to encourage, to be encouraged by?
As we desire to live, chin up, keeping watch, that every moment is lived for the glory of God.
that's the good news
that's the goal
but I want to say this as we reflect
and prepare for the ending of our time
I'd like for us to take a few moments
in just silent meditation
some silent confession
just quietly, nobody's going to hear it
but just your heart and God
and I'm going to encourage you just to bow your heads
for a moment
and just ask as we kind of prayerfully think through
how's been our year
are we more mature now
than we were a year ago
what have we learned
in the life experiences of this year
are we living each day
as if we're a gift unto the Lord
and if not
you can begin to just pray along these lines
Lord I thank you
that you are a merciful
wonderful Lord
that gives us new starts
and Lord whatever these things are
that you brought to mind
I confess them before you
I want to remove them
from my life that I might
be pure and holy
living authentic lives with each
and every second that you give
so Lord may all of my life be
an act of worship may all
that I am honor you
Lord I pray that you would
find a friend an accountability partner
somebody to encourage me that I
might encourage as well
we might share heart to heart life to life
as a way to keep watch
to keep our chins up
and live expectantly
when you come in the sky.
Father, I pray your spirit upon this congregation
that you would be doing merciful,
wonderful, gracious work.
That you'd prune away
the branches that no longer produce fruit.
That you'd revive
and pour the fertilizer of your spirit on our souls.
We might grow and develop and mature.
Lord, keep our eyes,
keep our countenance before you.
Knowing that every moment is a gift.
And may we live it as a gift, one that we give back to you.
Forgive us, Lord, for our wrongs.
Forgive us for the things that don't honor you.
Clean us afresh.
Make us ready for 2004.
May we live lives of victory, overcoming new hurdles, new obstacles,
because we're trusting in you.
We're filled by your spirit.
We're looking chin up.
So, Lord, take all that we are and mold it for your glory.
My life is yours.
It's all yours.
Thank you for your mercy and your grace.
Thank you for the Spirit.
Thank you for new beginnings.
Thank you for life eternal.
Thank you that Jesus will one day come.
And may we be ready.
In Jesus' name.
