You, if you notice, if you are a visitor, we do have a pastor. He is much taller than I am.
That's why I'm standing on this little podium, so I don't look like a munchkin behind this,
you know. That's why I'm doing that. He also has a deeper voice, and he's very good at what he does.
So I told him back in June when they were lining up, and they said people were going to be gone.
We got to August 4th, and it looked like a lot of people were going to be gone.
I said, I can do that.
Okay.
So here I am this morning.
And no, you're not in a Southern Baptist church, even though I talk Southern.
I am.
I was born and raised in West Virginia.
So I do still have some of that.
I moved here in 1984.
A traveling evangelist brought me all the way to Garden Grove, California.
And it's been an incredible ride ever since then.
I just want you to know that I remember hearing a story about a pastor who went to speak
a Caucasian man went to speak in an African-American church and he said you know you they
really let you know if you're doing a good job he said because as you're as you're preaching
if they like what's going on you hear lots of amens he says but I got into my preaching and
And he said, I was going on, and there weren't any amens.
And he said, you know, so I just feel led to do what I'm doing.
He says, and all of a sudden, all the way from the back of the church,
he hears some man yell, help him, Jesus.
I would prefer you not yell that out loud.
If you'd like to just talk to him personally, quietly, and pray.
If I see all your heads bowed, I'll know it's getting pretty bad up here.
Oh, my.
and the other thing is I've always felt like Moses in a way that he didn't like he didn't want to
talk neither did I I could sing but have you ever listened to your own voice on a recording and you
go oh well that's what I always felt like when I heard my own speaking voice even to this day but
you know what I'm going on and I'm doing what I feel the Lord's leading me to do this morning
as I thank you you know I I talked to Kirk and we were I said so do you have something specific
you want me to preach about and he says you know well let me think about it and you know Kirk plans
out his sermons and figures out where we're going and all of a sudden I said well if you don't have
anything planned I'd like to talk about worship he says you know what I think that would be fine
so this morning we're going to talk about worship worship I call it worship 101 I don't know what
better thing to call it, but that's what I called it. What is worship? I've been teaching language
arts this summer, so I decided first we'll look in the dictionary. Worship, it's a noun as in the
worship service that you're in this morning. Reverence offered a divine being or a supernatural
power. That's what we come to do. But worship is also a verb. A verb is an action word,
in case you didn't know that. It's what we do to regard with great or extravagant respect,
honor, or devotion. Sometimes we come to this worship service and I don't know if it's a verb
or not. We need to make it a verb. If you want to learn something, you go to someone who knows
the subject. True? We go to, you know, we send our kids off to college. We want them to learn.
We try to send them to the best colleges, assuming that the best colleges have the best teachers, you hope.
So I thought, who better to learn worship from than who in the Bible?
Anyone got any idea?
David.
David.
Not this David.
David.
Even though they always made me when I was younger in your elementary school, I always had to kill Goliath at every play we put on.
I don't know what that was all about, but okay.
Okay. But anyway, David, he was a warrior, both physically and spiritually. He wanted to see
God's face. He was a man after God's own heart. Did this man know how to worship? I believe he
did. They even talk about it. By the way, just for a side note, did you know that when Handel wrote
the hallelujah chorus from messiah he came out and he said i believe i've seen the face of god
so i thought that was interesting david wanted to see the face of god and handel thought he saw
the face of god and after listening to the hallelujah chorus maybe he did worshiper david
was a worshiper a true worshiper uh you have to admit he was truly inhibited in his worship
I mean, it takes a lot of nerve to go out and do a dance in a little loincloth.
Now, if he showed up here today, I guess we couldn't let him in the door.
Because we would probably feel a little uncomfortable if David walked in and started dancing in a loincloth.
Why? Because we're just not used to that.
You know, after all, this is the 21st century, and we have things a little bit more under control.
Or maybe we're more out of control.
We should be uninhibited in our worship.
2 Samuel 6, 14 through 15,
David wearing a linen ephod
danced before the Lord with all his might
while he and the entire house of Israel
brought up the ark of the Lord
with shouts and sounds of the trumpet.
That had to be a spectacle to see.
In my mind, I try to picture that.
It must have been unbelievable
watching this man come and dance before the Lord.
1 Chronicles 23, 4-5, David said,
24,000 of them will supervise the work at the temple of the Lord.
6,000 are to serve as officials and judges.
4,000 will work as gatekeepers,
and another 4,000 will praise the Lord with the musical instruments I have made.
David wanted to worship the Lord so much he even made his own instruments.
he wanted to praise the lord with them our guitar that we use today is actually just
a sister to the harp that's all it is so david david did that second samuel 6 5 meanwhile david
and all the house of israel were celebrating before the lord with all kinds of instruments
made of fir wood and with lyres harps tambourines castanets and cymbals i went to college
the tambourine the castanets the cymbals they're all part of the percussion family you have to hit
them to make a sound so when people worry about us using drums and things in the service we weren't
the first to do that david had them doing it way back then nehemiah 8 6 then ezra blessed the lord
the great god and all the people answered amen amen while lifting up their hands they bowed low
and worship the Lord with their faces to the ground.
Now, I'm not saying we need to come in here this morning
and I'll lay face down on the ground.
But you know, there's something very humble
about laying before the Lord.
And you know what?
It all depends where you are
and what's going on in your life.
If things are going great in your life,
be thankful.
Praise God.
But you know what?
I know each and every Sunday,
there are groups of people who come in this door
who don't have that feeling in their heart.
They have sorrow.
They come.
They come to worship because God tells us to do that.
But they also come because they're hurting.
And you know what?
When you're flying high,
you need to reach down and help those that aren't.
That's what we're here for.
1 Chronicles 16, 28 through 29.
Give unto the Lord, all ye kindreds of the people,
give unto the Lord glory and strength.
given to the lord the glory due unto his name bring an offering and come before him worship
the lord in the beauty of holiness that is an absolutely beautiful piece of scripture
in the beauty of holiness there were lots of people as we read in the bible as i'm reading and
as i was learning myself you know what there's a lot of face down worship going on they just laid
before the Lord. 2 Chronicles 20, 18 through 19, Jehoshaphat bowed his head with his face to the
ground, and all Judea and all Judah and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem fell down before the
Lord, worshiping the Lord. The Levites and the sons of the Kohaites and the sons of the Korahites,
I'll get it right here in a minute, stood up and praised the Lord God of Israel with
a very loud voice. A very loud voice. These people knew what they were doing. You know,
it amazes me that we can go to a football game or some athletic event, and everybody who's there
gets all excited about someone who might make a touchdown. We jump to our feet. We scream. We yell.
we clap. We're all excited. We just think that's great. Then we come to worship, and someone gives
our heart to the Lord. Do we really get excited about that? They do in heaven, but do we here?
We should be unbelievably excited. To God be the glory and the praise. It should just swell from
our hearts. But no, I don't know what it is. It seems like maybe the more controlled we have
ourselves, we don't, you know, we all want to be in control, but we need to let go and let God.
We shouldn't worry about the person standing next to us. We should be worried about how we
stand before the Lord, how we can worship the Lord. Don't worry about what you might look like
to the person next to you.
Worry about praising God.
Give him the praise and glory to his name.
New Testament, Ephesians 5, 18 through 12.
Don't be drunk with wine because that will ruin your life.
Instead, let the Holy Spirit fill and control you.
Then you will sing psalms and hymns
and spiritual songs among yourselves,
making music to the Lord in your hearts.
And you will always give thanks for everything to God,
the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. I looked at that scripture. Psalms, hymns,
spiritual songs. He didn't say only hymns. He didn't say only spiritual songs. He put it all
down. So I went, let's go back to the dictionary. Let's look. What is a hymn? Is it something that's
put in that little book that we open up? A hymn is a song of praise to God, a metrical composition
adapted for singing in a religious service, a song of praise or joy. I was brought up on the
old hymns. I love the old hymns. And you know, because I started in an American Baptist church,
and then I actually went with a youth group when I was growing up that went to a Methodist church.
And then from there, when I went to college, there was an American Baptist church there,
so I went to the Presbyterian Church.
Let me tell you.
Oh, and then I went to a church,
worked in a church of God out of Anderson, Indiana.
People, no matter what,
no matter whether they're Methodist, Baptist, Presbyterian,
they love hymns.
We all like the hymns we know.
When you talk about hymns, you say,
I want to hear the hymns.
You really want to hear the hymns you know.
We all do.
But there are new hymns.
There are actually new hymns, and they're beautifully written.
And we need to learn them as well.
But don't forget the old.
We should never forget the old.
Hymn, psalm.
A psalm is a noun, a sacred song or poem used in worship,
especially one of the biblical hymns collected in the book of Psalms.
I just love opening the book of Psalms and just reading them.
I'm a musician, so I just, I really get into the book.
I really like it.
And you know what?
A lot of our praise songs that we use are straight from psalms, just with a new twist.
And what is spiritual?
It's an adjective of relating to, consisting of, or affecting the spirit.
Of or relating to sacred matters, as in spiritual songs.
A song is a noun.
the act or art of singing a poetical composition.
I think those kind of speak for themselves.
I like looking at the Psalms,
and I wanted to look at several of them this morning
just to read them to you
and look at how the worship takes place.
Psalm 28.2
Listen to my prayer for mercy
as I cry out to you for help,
as I lift my hands toward the holy sanctuary.
Psalm 63.3-5
Your unfailing love is better to me than life itself.
How I praise you.
I will honor you as long as I live,
lifting up my hands to you in prayer.
You satisfy me more than the richest of foods.
I will praise you with songs of joy.
Psalm 66
Say to God, how awesome are your works.
Because of the greatness of your power, your enemies will give feigned obedience to you.
All the earth will worship you and will sing praises to you.
They sing praises to your name.
That's where one of our songs came from this morning.
I sing praises to your name, O Lord.
Psalm 84, one of my favorites.
How lovely are your dwelling places, O Lord of hosts!
My soul longed and even yearned for the courts of the Lord.
My heart and my flesh sing for joy to the living God.
Psalm 95, 5-7
The sea is his, for it was he who made it,
and his hands formed the dry land.
come let us worship and bow down let us kneel before the Lord our maker for he is our God
and we are the people of his pasture and the sheep of his hand in the last psalm 150
praise him with a sound trumpet sound praise him with harp and lyre praise him with timbrel and
dancing. Praise him with stringed instruments and pipe. Praise him with loud cymbals. Praise
him with resounding cymbals. Praise him with timbrel and dancing. Have you ever been in a
worship service where you've seen dancing? I have. I have to admit, the first time I was in the
service, I was like, what? Wait a minute. And then I looked in the scripture. Well, it's in the
scripture. And I have to tell you, I was so blessed because when you see dances to worship
the Lord, it's quite different and it's beautiful. Absolutely beautiful. These people uninhibited
and they praise the Lord. I'm not saying we need to dance. If you feel led to, that's okay. Go ahead.
We'll just let you do it and the rest of us will get used to it and praise the Lord. But it's in
scripture so but it's a different type i wonder what jesus was thinking about worship there was
something that kind of stuck in stuck in my heart here and that that was mark 12 when jesus
was talking one of the teachers of religious law was standing there listening to the discussion he
realized that Jesus had answered well, so he asked, of all the commandments, which is the most important?
Jesus replied, the most important commandment is this. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is the one
and only Lord, and you must love the Lord your God with all your heart, all your soul, all your mind,
and all your strength. The second is equally important. Love your neighbor as yourself.
No other commandment is greater than these. We're to worship the Lord, but we have to love our
neighbor. We have to love our neighbor. And it's how we love that is true worship. That's why God
says, if you have something against your neighbor, go and make it right. Do you think your worship is
really hurt when you have something you're holding against your neighbor? No. And I know some people
say, well, you don't know what they did to me. You don't know what they did to my family. You don't
know what they did to so-and-so. Did they nail your son to a tree? Forgiveness is a choice. We
choose to forgive so we can praise God with a clean heart and stand before him. Jesus said
in John 4, 21 through 23. Jesus replied, believe me, the time is coming when it will no longer
matter whether you worship the Father here or in Jerusalem. You Samaritans know so little about the
one you worship, while we Jews know all about him, for salvation comes through the Jews.
But the time is coming and is already here when true worshipers will worship the Father
in spirit and in truth the father is looking for anyone who will worship him that way
romans 12 1 through 2 therefore i urge you brethren by the mercies of god to present
your bodies a living and holy sacrifice acceptable to god which is your spiritual service
of worship. And do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind
so that you may prove what the will of God is, that which is good and acceptable and perfect.
The time is coming we're going to be laying face down before the Lord. Every knee shall bow
and every tongue will confess it's written in the scripture revelation 7 11 and they fell on their
faces before the throne and worship god saying amen blessing and glory and wisdom and thanksgiving
and honor and power and might be to our god forever and ever amen in matthew 15 these people
honor me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me. They worship me in vain.
Their teachings are but rules taught by men. Jesus quotes Isaiah to the Pharisees and the
teachers of the law. Our worship cannot be in vain. When you get ready to come to worship each
and every Sunday, you should prepare yourself for worship before you enter the door, because it's
not about what we sing. It's not about what we say, but it's about our hearts coming prepared
to worship. Our service, we come to praise. We come to give our tithes and our offerings of love.
We come to listen to God's holy word spoken and sung. We come to share what the Lord has done.
We come to talk and sing about his love.
We come to fellowship with people who love the Lord.
So why do you come?
If you come to be entertained, we're going to let you down.
If you come to be part of a social club, you've come to the wrong place.
What does Jesus say?
He said, this is a house of prayer.
We pray for his presence.
We pray for others.
prayer, it's how we show our love for another, for one another through prayer. And sometimes we need
prayer for ourselves. You know, when you're laying in a hospital bed and you're getting ready to go
into surgery, it's not a gift you want. It's not flowers that you want. You want people standing
around you who will pray for you, who will lift you up, who will hold your hand. I don't know
about you, but if I think I'm ill, I start calling on my old prayer warriors, people that you know,
that you love and care about. It's hard to ask for help. I remember sitting in services and the
pastor would be preaching on drinking and then he'd have an altar call and people would go forward
and immediately everybody was thinking,
they missed a drink.
Maybe they just wanted someone to pray for them.
Humble thyself in the sight of the Lord
and he will lift you up.
Do you need a lift?
Do you need someone to pray for you?
You can just sit there.
If you're really hurting,
don't be afraid to let people know you're hurting.
It's okay.
This is not the world.
This is the family of God.
This is where we come to lift one another up.
If it's bothering you, God knows it.
You can put on all the smiley face you want.
God knows your heart.
He knows you're hurting.
Do you know how much better you feel after someone has prayed for you?
I've had people pray for me.
I had people praying for me this week as I got ready to do this.
God is loving and kind and gracious.
He reaches his hand out to each and every one of you.
There's something for each of you this morning.
If you don't know the Lord this morning, he's there.
If you do know the Lord and you're still hurting,
you're going through a rough time this morning, he's there.
There are people here who love you.
There are people here who will pray for you.
We need to do more of that.
The pews have been moved, actually, in our new sanctuary,
which makes it easier to get in and out.
But if you need prayer this morning, don't sit there.
if you feel great and you just want to praise god great if the lord leads you to pray for someone
else and lays it on your heart you need to do that through all of this we worship our god
because we are obedient to his word that makes us true worshipers we're going to sing a song
i love what the words say you are my god you are my king you are my master my everything
that's why I sing to you
Hallelujah
I'm going to ask you to stand
as we sing together
if you want prayer this morning
come and let people pray for you
don't be afraid to be the first one
people love you
and will lift you up
you are my God
