The next day in a written test, she included this question.
My full name has six letters. The first one is M. I pick up things. What am I?
Fifty percent of the students wrote mother. Amen, huh?
Another take on that.
Dr. G. Campbell Morgan was a great preacher, and he had four sons, and they were all great preachers.
And someone once came into the drawing room and asked, when the family was all there,
They said to one of the sons, which one is the greatest preacher in your family?
That's a tough question.
And he had great admiration for his father, and he looked at his father, and he said without a moment's hesitation,
Mother, because she lived it.
She lived it.
Therefore, she's the greatest preacher in that family.
Hey, friends, mothers, we know this, are a powerful force on planet Earth as designed by God.
And so on this Mother's Day, as part of this church, on behalf of the church,
our hats off are to you, all mothers, grandmothers, great-grandmothers, aspiring mothers, you name it.
We bless you and we thank you for your ministry and your hard work.
Is there an amen out there? Amen.
Now, before I continue, I wanted to highlight somebody.
I did this last year.
And I want just, as we talk about a biblical character this morning,
I want to share somebody who lives out these values today,
who's actually here in our midst.
This individual is a special woman.
She is a mother, a grandmother, trained as a chemist, a musician, a missionary,
a teacher even today. She's a godly woman and a leader, and she's sitting at the organ right
behind me. You want to say something? We appreciate you. Surprise. You want to say anything?
Betty Lyon lives out many of the themes in the book of Deborah, or rather in the book of Judges
from the character of Deborah. We want to honor you this morning as a leader, as a godly woman,
in a variety of ways, you have been a real
leader for us.
We thank you. You want to say anything?
I don't know what to say.
This is such a surprise.
I just praise the Lord
for each one of you and thank
the Lord for you and
pray that we all might follow
the Lord as long as we live.
Thank you so much.
Thank you for your ministry. I appreciate you.
You're welcome.
She had no idea we were doing that.
And I don't usually pick on people from the pulpit, but this is special day.
Well, as is customary on Mother's Day, I like to highlight various women in Scripture
that make a big impact on the kingdom of God and that bless us across the centuries.
And so this morning is going to be no different.
And today I want to look at a woman from the Old Testament.
We're going to look at Deborah and see some of the principles of leadership
that come out of this great woman in the Old Testament.
And so as parents, as grandparents, as employers, employees, and so on,
we all have leadership roles in the world today.
And so we can learn from this great and mighty and godly woman
as she is an encouragement to all of us.
And so this morning we're going to turn to the book of Judges.
And I want to give you a quick backdrop on this text.
The book of Judges covers 300 years of history.
And during this time, God's people are now living in the promised land,
but they have no king.
There's no one leader.
It's a time between Joshua and the first king.
And in essence, there's nobody calling the shots.
There's nobody bringing stability to the land.
And so there was a time when, as the Bible says,
the people did what was right in their own eyes.
and they found themselves in a cycle that went over and over.
It looked like this.
The people would be doing well, stage one.
And then after years of prosperity, they'd turn their backs on God.
That was stage two.
Stage three, God would send an enemy to oppress them.
Stage four, the people would cry out to God.
Stage five, God sends a deliverer and the people start doing well again.
And that cycle repeats over and over and over.
And this story this morning from Judges chapter 4 takes place during one of those cycles.
And so we begin.
After Ehud's death, the Israelites again did what was evil in the sight of the Lord.
So the Lord handed them over to King Jabin of Hazor, a Canaanite king.
And the commander of his army was Sisera, who lived in Herosheth Hagoyim.
Sisera, who had 900 iron chariots, ruthlessly oppressed the Israelites for 20 years.
Then the Israelites cried out to the Lord for help.
Deborah, the wife of Lapidoth, was a prophet who had become a judge in Israel.
She would hold court under the palm of Deborah, which stood between Ramah and Bethel in the hill country of Ephraim.
And the Israelites came to see her to settle their disputes.
One day, she sent for Barak, son of Abinoam, who lived in Kadesh in the land of Naphtali.
And she said to him, this is what the Lord, the God of Israel, commands you.
Assemble 10,000 warriors from the tribes of Naphtali and Zebulun at Mount Tabor.
and I will lure Sisera, commander of Jabin's army,
along with his chariots and warriors to the Kishon River,
and there I will give you victory over him.
Barak told her, I will go, but only if you go with me.
Very well, she replied.
I will go with you, but since you have made this choice,
you will receive no honor,
for the Lord's victory over Sisera will be at the hands of a woman.
So Deborah went with Barak to Kadesh.
At Kadesh, Barak called together the tribes of Zebulun and Naphtali,
and 10,000 warriors marched up with them.
Deborah also marched with them.
Can you imagine that?
Now Haber the Kenite, a descendant of Moses' brother-in-law, Hobab,
had moved away from the other members of the tribe
and pitched his tent by the oak of Zanaim near Kadesh.
When Sisera was told that Barak's son of Abinoam had gone up to Mount Tabor,
he called for all 900 of his iron chariots and all of his warriors,
and they marched from Hereshoth Hagayim to the Gishon River.
And then Deborah said to Barak,
Get ready.
Today the Lord will give you victory over Sisera,
for the Lord is marching ahead of you.
And so Barak led his 10,000 warriors down the slopes of Mount Tabor into battle.
When Barak attacked the Lord through Sisera and all his charioteers and warriors into a panic,
And then Sisera leaped down from his chariot and escaped on foot.
Barak chased the enemy and their chariots all the way to Herosheth Hagoyim,
killing all of Sisera's warrior, and not a single one was left.
We're going to stop right there.
The Israelites had done evil in the sight of the Lord and slaved for 20 years.
And after intense oppression, they call out to the Lord,
And God brings this woman, Deborah, onto the scene.
Now Deborah was a woman who was appointed and chosen by God to be a prophet.
And a prophet in those days was one who spoke directly for God.
Here's how it worked.
If a prophet spoke untruth in the name of God, they were to be killed.
This is serious business.
and Deborah carried that mantle of being a prophet of God.
Well, Deborah, the prophet, through her skills and her prophetic voice,
became a judge in the land.
And later in chapter 5, verse 7, it even says she arose as a mother in Israel.
So on this Mother's Day, I want to dote for a moment on Deborah.
First of all, the text says that people came to her to settle disputes.
She was a leader by her, number one, by her wisdom.
She was a leader by her wisdom.
Wisdom is applied knowledge.
One dimension of wisdom is the ability to see the big picture
and to know what to do.
That was her role.
Settle disputes, see the big picture, give wisdom.
Doug Larson said that wisdom is the reward you get
for a lifetime of listening
when you would have preferred to talk.
That's wisdom.
Theodore Leavitt of Harvard said,
Experience comes from what we have done.
Wisdom comes from what we have done badly.
I like that.
Wisdom.
My favorite is this.
A gentleman who was at NASA
was assigned to prepare a presentation on lessons learned
from the bad experience with the Hubble telescope.
And on his chart at this briefing, he said,
the number one lesson, ladies and gentlemen,
in naming your mission, never use a word that rhymes with trouble.
That's wisdom.
Deborah had great wisdom.
And she settled the disputes of the Israelites day in and day out.
Now, if you think about it, that's really amazing.
Because in a patriarchal society in which she lived,
women were looked down upon and Deborah stands in this context as a weaker figure in the culture
but God uses her in a powerful way in a powerful way the people came from all around to hear
her applied wisdom it was obvious that Deborah was fair she was intelligent and able to handle
extremely difficult situations.
Friends, to be an effective leader,
to be a parent, a grandparent,
to be a mentor in this society,
you need to get wisdom
and you need to give wisdom.
Because the people in your care
are looking for direction,
they're looking for help,
they're looking for assistance in life.
And as wise people,
you need to have counsel
that you can give to them
that they might become all that God wants them to be.
that's a high calling and a very high privilege the bible says in james 1 5 if any of you is
lacking wisdom ask god and who gives generously to all ungrudgingly and it will be given to you
leaders like deborah seek the lord for wisdom and they pass wisdom on to others
If you are a mother or a father, if you have younger ones who need your insight, your guidance, and your wisdom,
what are you giving them?
Friends, can we be diligent in seeking the Lord and asking God for wisdom?
That we might understand God's ways and be in a position to bless others and give that to others.
May Deborah be our model.
My question is, who in your life do you need to model wisdom?
Who is looking to you for leadership in this world?
What is it exactly that you're giving to them?
And are you pointing them towards God?
Deborah showed great leadership through wisdom.
She was also a great leader because of her action.
And that's my second point, that she was a leader through action.
Deborah got a word from the Lord that Barak was to assemble 10,000 troops
and meet at this mountain, Tabor.
And from there, God was going to lure the Canaanite army under Sisera
and give Barak and his warriors the victory.
But Barak fumbled the directive.
He doesn't believe it.
He asks that Deborah go with him.
And Deborah realizes immediately that Barak has missed God's plan for him.
But thank God, she gives him another way out.
She gives him another chance.
She says in verse 9 and 10,
very well i will go with you but since you have made this choice you will receive no honor for
the lord's victory over sisera will be at the hands of a woman so deborah went with barak and
the kadesh a kadesh barak called together the tribes of zebulun and aftali and the ten thousand
warriors marched up with him and deborah also marched with them deborah put herself into the
mission. She marched with them. She did not sit at home and just ponder the matter. She didn't let
somebody else worry about the problem. This woman got involved with the troops and led by example.
She got into it. She acted. That one word went says it all. She did something. She went. She didn't sit.
She didn't sit at home and ponder. She didn't direct things from the armchair. She didn't point
to others. You do this and you do that and I'll stay home. She got directly involved because
integrity was important. She's going to lead by example and she probably took some heat for doing
it. She's trying to convince an unorganized army from these tribes to go up against the mighty
warriors of Sisera. I think she probably took some criticism. She definitely took some risks
But she didn't back down.
She didn't back down.
She knew who she was.
She knew who God was.
And she knew that God was leading them.
So she led with confidence in action.
Where in your life do you need to take the lead and act?
Where in your life do you need to step out and go forward and lead?
Are you letting fear get you down?
I suspect there might have been some fear in Deborah, but she put it asunder, trusted the Lord,
said, I will not succumb to fear, and she went and led and marched with the troops.
Do you let fear get you down?
How can you trust God to lead you back into action where you're needed?
Finally, she led through encouragement.
She was a leader by action.
She was a leader in encouragement.
She was a leader in wisdom.
She knew the power of encouragement.
Barak may have been gifted, but apparently he wasn't all that confident.
We might say he had a self-esteem problem here, or just a downright fear problem here.
Deborah set out to motivate him and encourage him.
She did three things.
First, she confronted him with God's command.
She said, Behold, the Lord, the God of Israel, has commanded.
She's saying, Barak, this is not my will.
This is God's will.
It's not an option.
This is a requirement of God.
She encouraged him with the words of God.
She strengthened him next with the promises of God.
She reminds him, Sisera is going to be drawn out by the Lord.
God will give you the strength.
God will take care of this.
And finally, she encouraged him with her presence.
with her presence there are a number of reasons why barack may have said what he did in verse 8
if you go with me then i'll go if you don't go with me i won't go he might have been failing
to trust in god i think he was fearful either way deborah says i will go with you her presence
was important in this situation she needed to encourage this guy she needed to come alongside
of him. Put an arm around him and say, let's go together. She came along to encourage. Who can you
encourage today? Who looks up to you for continual encouragement as they live their life? It may be a
son or a daughter, a grandchild, an employee. Who knows? Who can you encourage today? Can you draw
upon God's strength to bless somebody else. Deborah drew on the strength of the Lord and then blessed
others. Can you do that as well? Who do you need to be present with even this very day? Because your
presence is powerful. You may not think you have much in you. Your presence is powerful. It motivated
this man as he commanded the armies. Your presence, friends, is powerful too. Who do you need to be
present with.
Deborah was a woman of God,
a spiritual leader.
And her example inspires me
and I hope it inspires you. I hope it's challenging
and encouraging
and will inspire you to lead
and to love more effectively
by wisdom
and action, encouragement.
Mothers and fathers,
you're needed in this world
to give wisdom, to act, to give encouragement.
May God bless you
as you raise your families with God's truth and fullness.
And may Deborah be an encouragement to you.
Come back to her sometimes and spend time in Judges 4.
Let the truth speak and minister and encourage you.
I'd like to sing this song, Make Me a Servant.
And afterwards, we're going to share some church business.
I'd encourage you at this time, though, just to stand
and say, yes, Lord, I want to be like Deborah.
I want to be a servant.
I want to be a leader
I want to serve
so let's sing this song
as the leaders come somewhere in this room
I'd like for this to be a time
of reflection for a moment
and to sing make me a servant
and I guess there's
nobody here at this time to play
can you get them to thank you
I did things a little bit out of order here at the last minute
and so I just caught them by surprise
and I forgot to talk with them
are they there
Betty can you lead us in that
Thank you.
Sing this in the spirit of a leader like Deborah.
And may God make you all servants.
