Well, boys and girls, time for Children's Church.
You're dismissed at this time. Follow those wonderful folks in the back, and you're on your way.
Today is a big day. Long time coming.
Tickets still available right back there by Dennis.
Wave your hand, Dennis. Right back there. Tickets will be available right after.
If this is your first time with us, the party starts at 4 o'clock. All that's free, the food and all that.
The concert tickets are $10 a person. We're actually paying for the food that you're eating earlier.
That's how that works.
Would you come to the concert tonight? Bob Carlisle, 7 o'clock. It would be a great time.
So friends and family of Fullerton First Baptist, we are about to have a party.
Amen? We're about to celebrate together.
We're about to praise the Lord for his goodness to us,
for God Almighty has come through for us.
Amen. We're about to enter a new era of ministry.
We're about to engage the community in some creative and innovative ways.
We're about to see new lives changed by the power of Jesus Christ in this place.
That's the new era we enter today.
We're about to have a party, and I can't wait.
If you recall in the fall of 1999, we proposed that the facilities in this church would be renovated
and we would decide it to be a mission outpost
that would bring the gospel message of Jesus Christ to a community
in a way that's contemporaneous with the values and the styles of our community.
We're going to get into their shoes and talk on those levels
and bring Jesus to this community.
And to do that, we're going to have to leave our 60s-era buildings
and leave that era good as it was
and enter the 2000s.
and the first step in doing that was to scrape it out and start over.
We've had to tear down.
We've had to rebuild.
We'd have to let go and dream again.
We're going to have to join arms and risk together,
and that is what we have done.
And what you see today and tonight is the fruit of that labor together.
And for God, we praise him.
It's been a wonderful journey, and now it comes to the end.
We took our cues back in 1999 from a Bible hero,
kind of one of my personal favorites who speaks to my life a number of different ways,
a man named Nehemiah.
And I want to recast that vision again and share with you what we talked about in 1999
and show you where we've been and where we are today.
And so we're going to use the acrostic of build, B-U-I-L-D,
to kind of frame this message this morning.
Now Nehemiah, if you're not familiar with the story,
was cupbearer to the king Artaxerxes.
Cupbearer was a pretty cushy job.
Your role as cupbearer to the king or queen
was to taste all the food and sip the wine
to make sure it wasn't poisoned.
And if you lived through that meal,
the king or queen ate.
Not a bad way to go.
Problem was, if things turned south,
that's the end of your job and your life.
Nehemiah was cupbearer to the king and very content in that,
enjoying all the rich foods and seemed to be doing fine,
until he caught a vision from God,
and his world was turned upside down.
Life would never be the same for Nehemiah again.
He was captured by a vision that was larger than himself.
See, what was happening was this.
The remnant, the Israelites, who had been in captivity in the Diaspora,
in the spreading out of the peoples,
were coming back to Israel, coming back to Jerusalem, back to their city.
And what they found in their city were the walls were torn down,
the gates were hanging in disrepair.
It was a disaster.
And they came back dejected and frustrated.
And then the vision came to rebuild the walls.
It was a bold vision.
And so B stands for bold.
because it was a very bold vision.
It was a bold undertaking.
And I believe that building up in this campaign
as we've rebuilt these facilities
has also been a very bold undertaking.
Let's be honest.
It's been a big budget, and it got bigger every day.
It's been a big remodel,
more complicated than we ever could have imagined three years ago.
We learned that what's on the plans and what's in reality
are not on the same page at all.
We learned about construction codes and things that we never knew.
I've learned more about construction.
I can talk to Randy Boehringer almost intelligently now.
It has been an incredible journey
as I've learned about construction and codes and pressure
and load bearings and all of these things.
But we've done it, and we tore this place apart
and rebuilt it for God's glory, for ministry,
and it's been a bold project, but an exciting one at that.
And I believe that when God has a vision for us,
we can pursue it with boldness because God Almighty is behind it.
Friends, it's not our vision.
It's not my vision.
It's not our council's vision.
I believe we've caught God's vision for this place.
And we sit in this wonderful facility because God has realized the vision through us.
and we thank him for it and what a privilege it is to stand here today
to say god be the glory thank you for what he has done
it's bold vision the second one number two
you is united in nehemiah's day when the peoples came back together to rebuild
the walls they were actually not as unified as one
might think they were coming from different places
and they were coming with different political perspectives and how things
should be run as they came back together
they were not on the same page but the vision of rebuilding united the people in a common vision
it brought people of different perspectives and persuasions together to work on a united project
a united front i have enjoyed seeing different generations in this church in the past three
years come together in miraculous and mysterious ways and work together side by side dreaming and
planning, and it has united us in a profound way. It's been very exciting to watch God bring healing
and dialogue across what is traditionally in the world, Ben, rifts in the generations are being
bridged in this place. It's a united issue, and building together has brought us together.
Number three, I is for invest. When you rebuilt the walls in ancient Jerusalem,
it was a little different than building today
as we watched them put the crane
or rather put the tower into our middle area
the atrium out here where the elevator now stands
it only took two people
one person to direct and one person
to sit in a crane with little levers
in an air conditioned little cab
going like this like a video game
and thousands of pounds are lifted and set gently
into place that's progress isn't it that's modern machinery wasn't like that in ancient
jerusalem in fact that job was hard and gritty and sweaty and outside all the time no air
conditioning no little levers no electronics nothing like that it's just get that brick
and walk over there and set it down over and over again it was a tough job yet the people did it
with all of their heart and their soul and their strength.
And it was costly.
When the people built the wall then, it cost them sweat.
It cost them sunburn.
It cost them toil.
It cost them physical strain.
It cost them sleep.
It cost them comfort.
But it was a job worth the investment.
They didn't have Tiger Balm.
They didn't have Tylenol.
They didn't have Aleve and Jet Spa and saunas.
to rebuild those aching muscles these poor people slept on the ground with a spear at their side
staying awake at night to keep off marauding people from destroying the project it was a
costly project yet they did it with all their muster because god was in it so many people in
this project though have given up toil some sunburn a lot of them have not slept in the past
two days. I've told them to go home. They're so
caught up in what they want to do to finish this project that there are people
very glazed this morning. If you see them, just let them pass.
Let them go by. They've been up for 48 hours straight
preparing this place, and especially downstairs, for you to enjoy
for today's celebration. I want to just say thank you to some people,
to Sam Allen, to Ken Lee, to Kent Loomis, Dick Lee, Lester
Nelson, Jim Bennett, all the members of our building team, Donna Tovey,
Michaela Prevost, Cameron Smith, the list goes on and on and on of the people
who have literally invested time and sweat and energy
making this place a reality. And from the bottom of my heart,
on behalf of this congregation, thank you to all of you.
I don't want to stop there, because I want to look at all of us right now.
For all of you who have faithfully backed this project financially,
with your sacrificial giving God has used you
to realize this project and you are all to be thanked
for that as well. May God bless you as you continue to give
and thank you from the bottom of our hearts as you've made a possibility
a reality and we thank you. It's been an investment
for all of us. Time, money, energy
sweat but I would say it's been worth it and I would say
that there's nothing quite like the kingdom of God,
there's nothing worth investing in like the kingdom of God.
Because stocks and bonds come and go.
And we've all seen them come and go.
But there's nothing like the church.
In the words of Bill Hybels, who said it this way,
there's nothing like the church on earth when it's working right.
There's nothing like it.
And yet, of course, the flip side is there's nothing quite like it
when it's working wrong, too.
We want to go there.
We want to be a healthy church that works right.
And when it's working right, people are finding hope and healing and Jesus Christ,
finding meaning and purpose in their lives, maturing in Jesus Christ,
and turning around and ministering to others.
That process, there's nothing like it in the world.
And someday when you're in heaven and somebody walks up to you,
and years after we've all been gone, they say,
thank you for giving to Building Up in 2002,
because 30 years later, I found Jesus Christ in the nursery or in the gymnasium
or wherever in this place, and I'm a Christian because of what you did
in those years. Thank you. There's nothing like the kingdom of God when it's working right.
Nothing better to invest in than the kingdom of God.
For the dividends are literally eternal.
And that would be a good place to say amen. Amen.
L is for Lord. When they rebuilt the walls in Jerusalem,
there was opposition, there were challenges, but they kept
God first it wasn't about just for the people though they were going to enjoy the city as a
fortified place but rebuilding the walls was for the glory of God because they were God's people
and the same thing is true here this is not a tabernacle just for us this is not just some big
wonderful trophy for us it's because God is in this place and it's for him that we do it and
we always keep the Lord first throughout the whole project and I believe that's why he's
blessed us. It's not for us. It's for the community, for God to use in ministry in profound and
challenging, innovative, and creative ways. We've kept the Lord first, and we will continue to keep
the Lord first as we go forth. I could tell you story after story of people's lives who are being
changed, even the here and now, but I want you to hear a couple stories that are live from the words
of the folks who are being transformed as God uses this place
for ministry. Eric, would you come? Pastor Eric's one, and then he's going to
share somebody else as well. Come tell us what God's been doing with you.
I actually had to write this down since, you know, I turned 30 and
my mind's beginning to slip. Alright, yeah, okay. Thanks, Chris.
Alright. In a big story like the story of Nehemiah,
it's easy to see it as kind of an epic adventure in which a
whole city is rebuilt, but there are individual stories inside of that larger story, and mine
is just one of them. So as I speak today, just know that the only reason I'm telling
you my story is just to give kind of us all a license to live in this building project
that we have all lived together. Everybody has a story, and all of them are important
and dear to God's heart. This is mine, and by coincidence, my wife's, and dragged her
long. We've been here about three or four years, three, four, four years? She's waving four. And
during that time, we've reached some pretty major milestones with our family. We both earned our
graduate degrees, she from USC, in occupational therapy. She's now working with, all right,
she's now working with disabled children in this very town, and she's doing a wonderful job there.
It's a very satisfying job for her. I went to Fuller Seminary, which also happens to be Kirk's
alma mater and graduated from there. And of course, we've moved on from then. We've started
paying for those educations, which is another matter entirely. But we've just done ordinary
kind of doodah things since that day. We've gone to school. We've gotten out of school.
We've landed jobs. We've rented an apartment. We've looked into mortgages. We've continued
to rent an apartment. We've had babies. We've changed towns. Nothing really earth-shattering.
These are just things that we all do to survive and hopefully thrive in, you know, the greater
Orange County area. But what makes Jenny's and my story slightly unique, and I do mean slightly
unique, is that the fact is the fact that when we first began attending Fullerton First Baptist
Church regularly, we were living not here but in Pasadena, the home of Fuller Seminary. We were
living in a very much of a shoebox-like apartment, and we were just south of the 210 freeway.
When I say just south, I mean just south of the 210 freeway. There was 210 Frontage Road
Apartments. And, well, we told ourselves after a while that the 210 freeway and the noise
that it made was a soothing ocean-like noise, and that helped us adjust to some pretty major
culture shock. Let me tell you a little bit about where we came from. We came from Northern
California, which maybe should succeed from Southern California at some future date because
they are two very different places. We came from Davis, which is a town built around a
university and it is a sleepy college town. I mean, more bikes than cars, more trees than
buildings. It is just, it's Pleasantville, only with liberal theology. You know, it's
just a very safe kind of idyllic place. It's the kind of place where you could walk downtown
at 2 a.m. and say not be considered dangerously suicidal. It was just a good place. And from
that safe little sheltered, warm, fuzzy womb, that little hamlet of, you know, textbooks
and big ideas and coffee shops and, you know, leaves raked into neat little piles, we came
to North Pasadena.
Not South Pasadena, where the celebrities and the executives live,
but North Pasadena.
And every night we would be greeted by North Pasadena's finest
up in their helicopter, flying overhead with a searchlight
probing every single alley and building
between the apartments that we lived.
It was like Vietnam.
Wubba-wubba-wubba-wubba-wubba-wubba.
Harder, harder, harder, harder, harder, harder, harder.
That was a backfire from a car, we hope.
It was the DMZ.
I mean, really, it was very frightening for us very sheltered little suburbanite kids.
So between sirens and screeching tires and backfires and gunshots
and, you know, the occasional unexplained scream,
we set up our new life amidst clutter and boxes
and just the kind of chaos that you come to expect whenever you move into a place.
And I very distinctly remember Jenny's and my first night in beautiful downtown Pasadena.
We were sleeping end-to-end on a dingy blue couch,
and we were crying because we missed our safe, predictable lives back in Davis.
We had spent the last four, in Jenny's case, seven in my case.
I guess I'm a slow starter.
Years getting to know the people of Davis.
They had become our community, our family.
We were in spitting distance from our parents.
If we wanted to, we could spend an afternoon outing with them,
and that was not a major ordeal.
We had just left our rocking little church.
This is the place that Jenny and I met.
This is the church where I rediscovered God as an adult.
And I think most significantly, this is the church where Jenny and I were married.
Long and the short of it is we missed our family.
That's what we lost when we came to Pasadena.
Which brings me to Fullerton First Baptist circa 1997.
We found here the family that we'd lost.
How many can resonate with that?
How many can say that they have found in this place the family that at one point they left?
One Wednesday evening, Jenny's dad, who's a missionary to Muslim cultures all across the globe,
came here to give a little talk.
I guess it was a missions conference.
And I met Kirk.
And Kirk and I got to talking about postmodern ministry.
And that dangerous subject has evolved into this present job that I now do.
And we were just hooked.
Just like that.
didn't take a big ordeal. He didn't have to show me the facility, you know, or give me a vision
statement that I would buy into. We were just hooked. So from then on, on Sunday morning at
8 30 a.m., Jenny and I would pile into our truck, and we would get on the 210 freeway and head over
to the 57 down south to Fullerton First Baptist Church, and we would have this conversation
every time we did this, and it was something along the lines of, why are we doing this? Why are we
driving 45 minutes to go to a church, there are plenty of good churches in Pasadena, at
least that's what we heard. We would get here, we would do our worship thing, maybe go to
Sunday school. We would climb back into the truck and head back up to the San Bernardino
Mountains, those smoggy mountains that you head back up toward to get to Pasadena. And
we would both kind of turn to each other and realize this enormous sense of happiness and
belonging that we got every time we came down to this place. I never really analyzed it
at the time, but the more I think back about it, this is the same sort of kind of oozy
sensation you get in your stomach when you talk to a friend. You have a really satisfying
conversation with a friend whom you've known for a long time. We felt at home here. And
I'd like to give the credit to that, not just to Kirk, whom I met, you know, all those years
ago, but to the family of Fullerton First Baptist. Thank you for welcoming
my wife and now my daughter and myself into your family.
We appreciate that more than we can say. There's something else
though, and this is where we cross over into the sermon section of my little
talk. We felt strongly, Jenny and I, that something wonderful
and something, how do you say it, kind of poised to
happen was going on here in Fullerton First Baptist.
This is where you get into those, I can't quite put my finger on it, I can't explain it,
it's one of those oozy-woozy je ne sais quoi, you know, I just don't know how to describe it,
but we knew that something big was going down here.
And what God was telling us every time we were driving home with that warm, peaceful feeling
was that tug, that little tickle at the back of our mind that told us about our sense of belonging,
our place here, was his invitation for us to join the mission
of this church. A lot of you have been through Henry Blackaby's materials on experiencing God
or have read books by Henry Blackaby. He teaches a lot of things, but if I could boil it down
to one concept, it's basically this. God invites you to join him in the things that he is doing
all around you. And to make my story very short, my wife and I clearly saw God doing things around
here, changing lives one at a time, gearing up to do church in ways that connected with people of a
lot of ages and life experiences. Now, we didn't know in particular what part we were going to play
in that whole endeavor. I mean, we never would have guessed that, say, even this renovation would
have taken place. Who'd sign on for that? None of you. I mean, I never would have guessed that David
Pei would have wrote me into doing Scrooge two years in a row and making me dress in drag. It's
Just one of those things that you don't pencil into your day timer.
Most of all, I never would have guessed that I would end up a minister here.
You see, when I first went to Fuller, I thought I'd gone to Fuller just to be
kind of a theologically educated artist. You know, an artist,
but not a minister. Either that, or I'd be going to be a college professor
who would use all of my hard-fought knowledge to just beat up on poor, unsuspecting
undergraduates, but not a minister. God, not a minister. Anything but a
minister. But if there's one thing I've learned, it's this little joke that I think
all of you can identify with. If you want to give God a good
laugh, tell him your plans. He finds that endlessly funny.
And this is what I've learned over the last couple of years, or
maybe the last 30 years. It's good to have tangible
goals and something to shoot for. That way you know more or less where you're
going. But as members of God's family, as
his children, we also have to acknowledge that his plans are always going to trump ours,
that he's got the ace of spades, and when he lays it down, all bets are off. And here's the really
amazing part of that unique fact. He's asked you and I, my wife, my daughter, every last one of you
to accept his invitation to join him in what he's doing here at Fullerton First Baptist.
That's what that tickle at the back of your head means.
That's what that peaceful feeling on the way home means.
And of course, you know what's next.
This is the pitch, right?
God asks you all to be part of his groundbreaking work in this place,
this community, this family of Fullerton First Baptist.
And it means that he has a very real and completely indispensable role
for you to play in this place.
You have a monogrammed invitation from heaven
to be part of the work that he is doing here.
Now that could sound like a cheesy recruitment speech.
I know if you're running the bounce house this afternoon,
thank you, we appreciate that.
But what I'm talking about is not just simple volunteerism.
I'm talking about something bigger.
I'm talking about something outrageously huge.
Saying God invites you to join him in something
is like saying the God of the universe
puts you in this little time, in this little place,
on the corner of Wilshire and Pomona,
across from the museum next to the kids fountain because he has a plan for you here and he called
you as opposed to someone else uniquely to be here grasp this i'm saying that the god of the big bang
wrote down before all of that started that you have a place to you have a role to play
in this ministry that's my motivational speech portion of the morning what i want to do now
is give you a third perspective,
and that comes from my friend
and actually classmate,
Michaela Prevost.
Because whatever else is true of this place,
whatever else is true of this building,
we know that the building houses a family,
and that that family, I'm happy to say, is growing.
So I want to invite another member of our family
just to come up and share her story.
All right, I agreed to give her
some prompting questions, just so.
wouldn't throw her to the wolves up here. All right. So, question number one. For $500,
how did you wind up here? I actually wound up here. It's a very similar kind of story and very
funny and ironic in a way. My life before Fullerton First Baptist was somewhat similar to
Jenny and Eric's. I lived in a town called Redlands. Grew up there my whole life. It was
very similar to the town that they lived in very sheltered very peaceful very quiet very quaint
and i moved out to pasadena and i lived just north of the 210 freeway that's even worse it's even
worse this gets worse so um yeah that was fun i think one night actually there was like four
helicopters and i called my parents because i was so scared and they were all circling over my
apartment. What did you do? I think I just watched the TV the whole time and then I'd like peek out from the blinds. What did you do to deserve four helicopters circling your apartment? And then well anyway I know so I lived out there for a year on my own away from my family. It took me an hour to get back to my parents so it was a different difficult time for me but a good time. The closest friend I have is
30 miles away. It was hard. It was a very, very lonely time. But I went
out there to go to school. And God kind of directed me in the place to
actually come out here to Fullerton. So I started working on my graduate degree
at Cal State. But during this time, from when
I was even in Redlands all the way up to Pasadena, I really couldn't find a church
I felt was my home. I really wasn't being fed the way I wanted to.
I was just really lonely and I needed that fellowship. So I
even got to the point when I came out here to Fullerton, I got out the phone book and I was
looking through the church listings. And I was, how can you tell? I'm like, well, I'll try this
one next week and then this one next week. And I was basically hopping around. And luckily enough
though, I was walking around at the farmer's market on Thursdays and I saw Pastor Dave sitting
out there with his little table where it said karate ministry and i laughed and god bless you
god bless you um i walked over there and i was like what is this oh hold on hold on i told my
rooms to hold on they went got bread and i laughed walking over there i'm like okay okay what's this
he just oh we we have a karate ministry we teach people karate and then we uh praise god
i i was so confused but i thought i have got to go to this church just just to like just for fun
and then he mentioned uh he started asking me about myself he said well where do you go to
school and i said cal state fullerton and he said oh did you know eric reimer and i i had heard his
name and i knew he was in one of my classes but i'd only been to class i'd only been to the class
like three or four times and really didn't know much and really didn't know many of the people
there. And I thought to myself and said, yeah, I think I know him. He goes, well, you should
come. His wife goes there. They're the greatest people. Come on down. And I seriously came
just out of sheer curiosity to find out. And it actually happened, I came right after September
11th, so it seemed like the most opportune time. And what really got me, like, hooked
was I was walking around, completely lost, around this building, didn't know where I
was going, and I see Betty Barrett. And she looks at me and she goes, where are you going?
I don't know, that's why I'm here, I don't know where I'm going, and she goes, well, you're coming
with me, and she grabs me, takes me to Sunday school, where Eric and Jenny were there, and they
both just jumped on me with friendliness, and I was sandwiched in between Betty and Jenny, and
they're both talking my ear off, I couldn't believe it, where are you coming from, oh my gosh, oh my gosh,
oh my gosh, I was dumbfounded, I had never been to a church like that, I'd never been someplace
where someone was so welcoming and so loving and so warm.
And after that, I was hooked, and I just thought,
well, I know what I'm doing next week, coming to this church.
Okay, well, you have blown right past my second question,
which was, why did you stick around after your initial visit?
But we've got that covered, okay.
Here's the biggie.
How have you felt God inviting you to join him in his work since you've been here?
Or what have you felt him inviting you to do?
Or join him in doing it?
Well, I came here to go to school for my art.
I'm working on my graduate degree in illustration.
And I've always had a passion for drawing.
And I really think God's blessed me with this talent.
And this was the first time I've ever been involved with a church where I've gotten to use that for him.
So I was able to be involved with this May 19th.
And I got involved with that.
And that was just amazing.
and it just seems like it snowballs.
So many people are coming up to me and they're like,
hey, could you help me out with this?
I was wondering if you could do this for me.
I'll pay you, and all right.
So that is just, it's amazing how God is really using this talent
he's blessed me with, not only for his glory,
but just for also keeping me fed.
And for those of you who don't know,
Michaela designed the posters and brochures that we're using
to publicize May 19th, and she did a fantastic job.
Last question. What do you think the future holds for this place?
Um, question. This place is amazing because if what I experienced that day in September could happen to every single person that came here, this place would explode with people.
And it's, I'm happy and I'm scared because I know that's going to happen.
And if we are just diligent in our prayers and our just fellowship with those around us, with the community, it's going to be crazy.
So it's kind of, but, I mean, I don't think God would allow all of this, building up all of this to happen in vain.
There's a reason why this has happened.
And he's just, it's going to be overwhelming.
I think it's going to blow away our expectations of what's happening.
Amen.
You see how that works?
life to life to life a crazy karate ministry hooks somebody who gets used in her own talent
that god has given her and suddenly ministry is happening and she's telling two friends and so on
and so on that's the body of christ in action and it's because you've all had given us a place
to start to do that kind of ministry it's very very very exciting and so we come to the end of
this project my last point is d for dedication now nehemiah and company finished in a little over
seven weeks we took 52 or more it's all right we're up to code we're good we are really up to
code oh yeah but you know when it was all over the people of israel had a party they had a big party
See, parties are important because parties allow you to stop, look back, and figure out
where you've been, where you are, and to thank those that were responsible for getting you
there.
They're markers in our life.
I think the church needs to party more.
Amen?
We need to celebrate what God is doing.
And today, we have designated May 19th as a big party.
And you all come.
It's going to be fun.
Listen to the party and how it went back in those days.
It's from Nehemiah chapter 12.
They were giving thanks, then proceeded to the temple of God where they took their places.
So did I, says Nehemiah, together with the group of leaders who were there with me.
And we went there together with the trumpet-playing priests.
Would have liked to have met those guys. That's an interesting word picture.
And here goes their names.
Something like Eliakim, Maasiah, Miniamin, Micaiah, Elione, Zechariah, Hananiah.
And the singers, Maasia, Shemaiah, Eliezer, Uzi, Jehohanan,
Melchizedek, Elam, and Ezer,
they played and sang loudly and clearly
under the direction of David Pei, the choir director.
And many sacrifices were being offered on that joyous day
for God had given the people, listen to this,
for God had given the people cause for great joy.
And the women and the children also participated in the celebration
and the joy of the people of Jerusalem, catch this,
could be heard far away they partied loud big let people know where they were and who was at the
center of that celebration god had given the people a cause for great joy and the people
of jerusalem could be heard far away that is celebration that is loud singing instruments
rock concert you name it we're doing it today four o'clock be here it's gonna be loud i want
fullerton to know that we're here and we're gonna crank it up so bring your cotton and come out
tonight and may the sound of music be heard far and away may our god receive glory to god be the
glory for great things he has done in jesus name we pray and amen and amen david lead us
as we celebrate one more time today
