It has been quite a week of tragedy and struggle, and I wanted to say again that if you are interested in being a part of alleviating some of that misery,
that we will be taking and continuing our one great hour of sharing, offering continues throughout this year.
And that money will go, and you can actually write on that if you drop a check in sometime to our office with the offering,
to fire relief and it will go directly
to our region and back to the churches
that are actually doing ministry on the
fire line. And so I know
that our church in San Bernardino
is currently a dispensing
center for mercy and ministry
in that area. So if you want to be a
part of that, you may feel free
to be a part of One Great Hour of Sharing as it
continues. I want to also
report good things happened on Halloween night
around here. It was a great night
of ministry and all the
kids in their costumes and a few adults in costume. That was a lot of fun.
Thank you all for coming and providing tons of sugar that our children
might stay up all night. Thank you very much. It was a great
evening of welcoming some new families to be a part of our experience
here. We look forward to that growing even next year. That's creative
ministry that God is doing in our midst. We're excited for what he is doing.
I'd like to shift gears and share something about memory.
Much of who we are is rooted in our memory.
We're a product of the people and the experiences that have shaped our lives.
Does that make sense?
Much of who we are is shaped by people as they poured into us,
given us ideas and shaped our experiences.
If you've ever spent time with somebody who is losing his or her memory,
it's an agonizing experience, isn't it?
It really is.
it's kind of a death, isn't it?
It's a death of the person that you know,
as they cannot remember who they are.
As Christians, we are ones who follow Jesus Christ.
Our identity is rooted in the past.
What God has done in our lives,
and what God has done over the centuries with his people,
before the nation of Israel occupied the promised land,
Moses spoke to the people,
and he said this in Deuteronomy,
chapter 4. But watch out. Be very careful never to forget what you have seen the Lord do for you.
Do not let these things escape from your mind as long as you live. And be sure to pass them on
to your children and your grandchildren. The defining event for the nation of Israel
was the exodus out of Egypt, the miraculous crossing of the Red Sea,
a defining moment that shaped who they were as the people of God,
and it shaped how they perceived God, who was the great deliverer of his people.
I had an experience a few years ago.
One of Robin's co-teachers was a practicing Jew,
And we had the wonderful experience of experiencing a Seder service at her home with her friends.
To commemorate the Exodus event, the Passover, and to take the symbols that all referred to the various dimensions of the story of God's moving the people out of Egypt through the Red Sea and into the Promised Land.
It was an amazing experience of symbol and reference to this amazing event that we look back on in Scripture.
A defining event for the Israelite people.
The defining event that continues for us as Christians is the death and the resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ.
A defining moment in our faith.
And so in celebrating the wonder in this worship series,
as we learn more about how we are to enter into more profound worship of our Lord,
we are called, number one, to remember.
In our worship, we're called to remember.
We're called to remember God's faithfulness to us
as an encouragement to be faithful back to God.
When we forget, whether in whole or in part, what God has done for us,
we suffer, as my colleague and friend Lowell Fairley has once said,
we suffer a kind of spiritual amnesia.
And that spiritual amnesia leaves us woefully weakened.
Psalm 77 gives us encouragement.
I will remember the deeds of the Lord.
Yes.
I will remember your miracles of long ago.
I will meditate on all your works and consider all of your mighty deeds.
And there's that theme, to remember.
Our worship is rooted in remembering what God has done.
So first, we're called to remember.
Second, in celebrating the wonder, we worship through symbols.
We worship through symbols.
Symbols today, I don't know if you've noticed, are making a big comeback.
You see them everywhere, logos, trademarks, symbols that represent companies and organizations
and musicians and tattoos of every style are symbols in our society.
For the past 400 years or so, our Western culture has been devoted to the logical and
the rational, and we've been somewhat adverse to spirituality, to nonverbal, to symbols.
That's all changing.
With the meltdown of the modern worldview, we're now embracing the mystical once again.
We're embracing symbols that point us to larger realities that our words can capture.
I think it's important that we have a rational defense of our faith.
The Bible even encourages us to do so.
But our faith, my friends, is more than just something we can logically put in a box.
The mysteries of God are larger than merely our arguments can foretell.
God is bigger than just merely the rational understanding of our God.
There are mysteries beyond words, and symbols can help us capture and point us to those essences even beyond words.
I think those symbols are powerful for they help us understand the mysteries that produce wonder and awe.
How do you communicate divine mysteries without length of words?
How do you refer to concepts beyond our lips?
You do it through symbols.
And the Christian tradition has a plethora of symbols that communicate these divine realities, these divine mysteries.
I think we've got some just to share with you.
Any symbols up there?
Yeah, here they come.
You'll notice these.
The fish, the cross, candles representing the Trinity.
Various symbols that point to realities in our faith that are beyond just our understanding in words.
They point to divine mysteries.
One symbol can capture emotion.
It can communicate theology.
it can communicate so much in one symbol.
Before you today are symbols that we will explore
that communicate divine realities.
And Jesus gave us two ordinances.
Jesus gave us two rituals, two enactments.
Baptism and the Lord's Supper.
Symbols that Jesus gave us as we are to participate in
as we follow him that help us to remember God's goodness and his work in our lives.
And friends, when we participate in these symbols, we are experiencing something of God.
We are learning.
We are relearning something about the mysteries of God.
And so it's important that we regularly keep these symbols in front of us.
And the first symbol I want to point to is baptism.
Last Sunday, we experienced a baptism in this service.
In the second service, we had three baptisms.
Wonderful experience on Sunday of baptism.
What a celebration that was.
I saw and heard the clapping and the cheers and the excitement
as you saw a fellow sister in Christ go through the waters of baptism.
What a celebration that is.
Baptism, what is it?
Jesus said in Matthew 28,
Go, make disciples of all the nations,
baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit,
and teach these new disciples to obey all the commands I have given you.
And be sure of this, I am with you always, even to the end of the age.
Jesus expects that when you become a follower of Jesus Christ,
that you will be baptized as this verse communicates to us.
Jesus wants us to be baptized.
Even Jesus was baptized.
So what does it mean?
What does that symbol point to?
What's the referent in baptism?
When you watch somebody lay back in the waters of baptism,
you're seeing a reenactment of the death of Jesus and his rising again,
symbolized by them raising up out of the water.
Jesus the Christ was actually put to death on a cross over 2,000 years ago.
He was buried in a tomb.
And on the third day, Sunday morning, he rose from the grave.
It's our celebration of Easter.
He came back from the ultimate horizon.
He came back from the dead.
He conquered humanity's greatest fear, our own death.
Romans 6.4 says,
For we died and were buried with Christ by baptism.
And just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glorious power of the Father,
now also we may live new lives.
Praise be to God.
Baptism is a means of which we yield ourselves to God.
And the fact that it's done publicly with all of us
makes it a sign to the world that we are members of Christ's church.
We identify with his life and his death and his resurrection.
And I love what J. Alice Mottier says,
Baptism points back to the work of God and forward to the life of faith.
Captures it well.
I think baptism is a wonderful, full-body, total-body, kinesthetic experience
that has power as a visible symbol of your new life in Christ
and as a means for the Holy Spirit to imprint on you the reality of your salvation.
It's a wonderful object lesson that you participate in.
And if you've been through it, you know what I'm saying.
You will never forget your baptism.
Your whole body, mind, and soul is brought into the experience,
and it's a marker in your life.
You will never forget it.
I want to be clear about this one issue.
Baptism doesn't make you a believer in Jesus.
Baptism is a reflection, a symbol of what has already happened in your life.
It's kind of like a wedding ring.
The wedding ring doesn't make the couple married.
The wedding ring symbolizes the commitment that's already been made.
It's a symbol to the world of what's happened in their hearts.
Little Betsy had faithfully been attending the baptism classes,
and she asked her mother, one, to be sure that her daughter understood the significance.
So the mother asked, now honey, what does baptism mean?
Are you clear?
She said, well, it isn't the water that makes you clean, mom.
And her mother thought, oh yes, she understands.
And she said, it's the soap.
Sometimes we get a little unclear of what it means.
It is a symbol of cleansing.
It is an experience of identifying with Christ.
but it doesn't make you a believer, it reflects that you are a believer.
You're already clean because of what Jesus did as you confessed your sins before God
and accept Jesus Christ.
The symbol points to the reality of the cleansing that has already happened in your life.
And I will say this too, baptism, my friends, is not optional.
Baptism is not something that we should just someday, if I think about it or feel about it,
get around to it. Baptism is something that Jesus wants us to do out of obedience to him.
It's an act of obedience. It's an act that speaks volumes to the one being baptized
and to the friends and the family who participate in watching the experience. And so that is my
challenge. If you have made a decision to follow Jesus Christ, you know him as your Lord and Savior,
but you have not yet come to the waters of baptism,
you need to pick up the phone and call me this week.
Can we receive that challenge?
It is time to say, I'm a believer,
and I'm going to identify publicly with Jesus and his church.
And so, friends, if you've not been baptized, you call us.
You come see us.
We want to do it.
We're having a baptism again next week.
It can be you.
So let's talk this week.
as an act of obedience.
And friends, it'll be a day you'll never forget.
It'll be a spiritual marker in your life
that you will find to be an encouragement
and a blessing beyond words.
You'll have to trust me,
and I'll meet you up there,
and you'll see.
The second celebration, the second ceremony
that Jesus laid down for us
was the Lord's Supper,
which we're going to be taking in a few moments.
A meal shared first between Jesus and his disciples
right before he died.
In 1 Corinthians, Paul lays out the whole thing.
For this is what the Lord himself said,
and I pass it on to you just as I received it.
On the night when he was betrayed,
the Lord Jesus took a loaf of bread,
and when he had given thanks, he broke it and said,
This is my body, which is given for you.
Do this in remembrance of me.
In the same way, he took the cup of wine after supper,
saying, this cup is the new covenant between God and you, sealed by the shedding of my blood.
Do this in remembrance of me as often as you drink it.
For every time you eat this bread and drink this cup,
you are announcing the Lord's death until he comes again.
That bread, that bread that they had that night, symbolic of the unleavened bread
the Israelites ate on the way out of Egypt, was given a new symbolic meaning that night,
designated now as a sacrificial body.
You see, in the Old Testament, in the religious sacrifice system,
the animal victim of sacrifice was laid on the altar.
And after the blood was poured out, the death of the animal was to take away the sin of the people,
to teach them the reality and the horror of sin
and the consequence of death that must be paid
that sin might be taken away.
And Jesus points to that bread.
He's pointing also to Isaiah 53.
I will give him the honors of one who is mighty and great
because he exposed himself to death.
He was counted among those who were sinners.
He bore the sins of many and he interceded for sinners.
Isaiah the prophet seeing Jesus far ahead.
Jesus, the one who would give himself for the sins of many,
be the intercessor, the prayer for us.
And Jesus said, do this in remembrance of me.
Friends, we understand that to be a reference to us today
to continue to have this communion experience
as a remembrance, a memory tool to point us to God
and to help us remember again what he's done for us
as an act of worship.
And then Jesus turned to that cup.
He talked about the cup as well as the wine.
In fact, the word cup in the Old Testament
has reference to the cup of God's wrath.
Isaiah 51, awake, awake, rise up, O Jerusalem.
You who have drunk from the hand of the Lord
the cup of His wrath.
You who have drained to its dregs
the goblet that makes men stagger.
Jesus would take God's wrath
and he would pour out his blood.
The blood of the covenant explains,
it points back to Exodus 24,
where blood was sprinkled over the people
to ratify the covenant
that they would be God's people
and he would be their God.
Notice Exodus 24,
then he took the book of the covenant
and read it to the people,
and they all responded again,
we will do everything the Lord has commanded,
we will obey.
And then Moses sprinkled the blood
from the basins over the people and said,
This blood confirms the covenant of the Lord
has made between you in giving you these laws.
And now, a new covenant.
A new covenant in Jesus' blood.
Friends, a new covenant is not a contract between equals.
It's an offer by God made to human beings
that could not save themselves.
It's an offer of pardon and power
which is received freely by those
who accept Christ through faith.
And all those illusions, all those symbols point to these deep realities about pardon, about forgiveness, about the power of God in our lives.
I love how Michael Green summarizes the meaning of the Lord's Supper.
In the Lord's Supper, you look back to the death of Christ.
You look in as you examine yourself before God.
You look up because you now have fellowship with God.
You look around because now you have fellowship with each other.
You look forward to Christ's return.
And you look outward to proclaim God's word to others.
And friends, here's how that message impacts our life and our hearts.
Here's how the Lord's Supper can speak to you right here this morning, right where you are.
whatever position your heart is in whatever your attitude whatever your struggle this is how the
Lord's Supper speaks to you do you doubt God's love this is life poured out for you do you doubt
God's power see here the glory of the risen Christ do you need his comfort this morning
in these symbols are the promised fulfillment of the new covenant between you and God do you need
his strength be nourished then on the bread of life do you want to acknowledge that you're going
to obey god's call then take the cup and drink it with him do you long for assurance that you will
live forever then come to the table a sign also of the banquet that we will one day have in heaven
forever and that is what we'll do today we're going to remember what god has done we're going
to look forward to our life forever with him seated at the banquet banqueting table of all
of god's people celebrating with the lamb what a feast that will be what a day that will be
when life gets us down there's a banquet friends in heaven for you there is god's power in your
life he loves you so much and all of this is captured in these symbols symbols that point
beyond words to the goodness and the power
of our Lord. Friends, God
wants to do a work in your life this morning. He wants
to let you know that He loves you and that He wants to spend
eternity with you. And so before we come
this morning and take this meal, I'm going to ask
that you would just close your eyes for a moment in just the privacy of your
quiet place. That you'd
reflect on these themes this morning if you need
to know God's love for you.
You can know.
This morning, if you need to finally decide
it's time to follow Jesus,
it's time to finally be obedient to what you know
he's doing in your life and drawing you to himself,
if today is the day that you want to know
that you'll be with God forever,
that you want to know that he's alive in your life
and have the power of the Holy Spirit within you,
I'm going to ask you to do a bold thing
in the quiet and privacy of your place.
I'm just going to ask that you slip your hand up quietly.
Nobody else will see you except for me.
But if you want to know
and have the Lord Jesus in your life,
thank you.
This is a time to give your life to him.
Is there anybody else?
Lord, my prayer for these people
is that in this day of communing with you,
that you would supercharge them
and recharge their souls,
that you'd fill them with an incredible power
and a confidence in you,
that they would know
that no matter what difficulties they face,
that you are with them and in them
and that you love them.
And so, Lord God, I pray that you would do a mighty work
as we come and take this meal together.
As your people, saved and sanctified,
washed clean in the blood of Jesus,
may this be an empowerful day of encouragement
as we seek to be obedient and follow you.
So, Lord, pour out your spirit.
Minister as you see fit.
May our hearts be open to you.
And may you accomplish your purposes today
in the lives of our people today.
Thank you, Lord, for your goodness and your power,
your grace and your mercy.
Thank you for Jesus who died for us.
And we pray these things in Jesus' name.
Amen.
