We're starting a sub-series this morning in our overall worship renewal series on loving the Lord with all of our heart, soul, mind, and strength.
And as we look at this now, four qualities of a victorious life, we're looking at joy this morning.
And I want to start by just sharing, I love this story about the person with the grumpy personality.
The man goes into a doctor's office, and he is greeted by the receptionist, and he says,
I've got a sore on my chin.
I'd like the doctor to examine.
And she says, great, down the hall, turn left, take off your clothes, sit there.
He says, it's just on my chin.
I don't think all that's necessary.
Down the hall, turn left, take off your clothes, sit there.
Ma'am, you don't understand.
Down the hall, turn left, take off your clothes, and sit.
Well, defeated, he did that.
He went down the hall, took a left, took off his clothes, sat there, walked into this room.
There's a man sitting there shivering in his boxer shorts, and the guy says, boy, that
lady out front, boy, she's got something, huh?
He says, boy, not only is she tough, I'm the UPS delivery man.
There are some difficult people out there, aren't there?
Now in all seriousness, it's actually genuinely hard for me to understand how we as Christians
can be terminally grumpy.
Now, I'm not talking about sorrow or loss.
I'm not talking about some of the tragedies that happen in our lives that affect us deeply.
We understand those things.
We as Christians, we face hard times and difficulties and loss and heartaches.
I'm not talking about those things.
I'm talking about this basic attitude with which we carry ourselves.
And I want to focus today on one of those key attitudes.
because what we have inside of us is what we give to others.
What is steeped in our soul is what we serve to other people.
If we have fear and bitterness filling our hearts,
our attitude and our countenance towards others will be sour and dour.
If we have joy and lightness of being
and grace inhabiting the recesses of our souls,
we will be a blessing to other people.
The famous preacher Billy Sunday said this.
He said, the trouble with many men, and I'm going to say in women as well,
is that they have got just enough religion to make them miserable.
If there's not joy in religion, you've got a leak in your religion.
It's true.
Now, why is this important?
Why do we talk about these qualities of a victorious life in the midst of a worship series?
because, friends, our experience of joy or the absence of our joy affects our relationships
around us. And even more importantly, it affects our worship. It affects our worship. Let's review
for a moment. When we come to church and participate in a corporate worship experience like
this. God is the audience, right? I'm not the audience. You're not the audience. God is the
audience. If God is the audience, we together are the participants in this worship service for God's
benefit and glory. And some of us that get up here and play and talk a little bit in one of these
things and squeaking your ears, sorry about that, we are here to prompt that experience.
But God is the audience.
And if God is the audience, the question is this, what do we bring in our hearts when
we come to worship?
What do we bring in our hearts to present to God who is the audience?
Put it another way.
our worship is affected by the affections of our hearts our worship is affected by the affections
of our hearts what we bring to worship matters in what we give to god who is the audience
so what do you bring when you come to worship another way to look at this our corporate worship
on sunday should be the culmination of the of your individual and private worship throughout the week
You are at home during the week.
You are praying and meditating on Scripture
and sharing Jesus with people
and experiencing the power of the Lord
in your individual lives.
And then we come together to serve the Lord together
and to sing and offer Him praise.
Sunday becomes a celebration of a culmination
of our private worship as expressed together.
And friends, do we come to worship the Lord?
Do we come together to give God reverence and joy and rejoice in Him?
Or do we come to subtly observe and pick and criticize the show?
See, what we bring affects our worship.
And if we can get a real handle on that and really think about how we prepare before we come to worship together,
I believe it'll change your life and blow the lid right off this place.
One of the key attributes, then, is joy.
Is joy.
This is the day that the Lord has made.
Let us keep silent.
That's not how it goes.
This is the day the Lord has made.
Let us rejoice and be glad in it.
Shout joyful praises to God, all the earth.
Sing about the glory of his name.
Tell the world how glorious he is.
Say to God, how awesome are your deeds.
Your enemies cringe before your mighty power.
Everything on earth will worship you.
They will sing your praises, shouting your name in glorious songs.
Can you feel the joy and the power in those scriptures?
That's to be our attitude that we bring when we come together.
It's hard to live out these verses if our souls are not full of joy.
So let's take a look at what joy is and what it is not.
Number one, joy is not the same thing as happiness.
Lowell touched on this last week.
Joy is not the same thing as happiness.
Joy and happiness often get confused.
They can feel the same at times, but they come from very different experiences.
Happiness comes from experiences in the world around us.
it's our response to external forces or circumstances a good dinner and a movie
a pleasing song a comfortable chair and a warm pair of slippers a warm smile from a friend
all of those things can make us happy in the moment and those are good things we enjoy those
things so can a raise a promotion a new fancy car whatever it is we can feel excitement and
and happiness about those things but we know that happiness fades happiness fades it feels great we
can be excited about something but it fades over time i can wake up feeling good and happy and
go to the office and get 10 000 messages and issues and problems and we can face all kinds
of things, and by the end of that day, I can be in a whole different mood based on circumstances.
My happiness is dependent on what's going on around us, right? So happiness is not the same
thing as joy. Happiness depends on the external. Joy also is not elation. Elation is that feeling
of euphoria or pride or high spirits, and it's a wonderful experience, but joy is not something
you have to somehow work yourself into elation also is dependent on experiences here joy comes
from a totally different source joy is a gift of god it's a gift of god joy is rooted in a strong
intimate relationship with our loving and our wonderful lord our joy is rooted in that experience
of knowing and loving him joy flows from our relationship with jesus christ it stems from
the love and the trust that we receive when we know that we are in christ if you study joy
throughout the scripture you'll see it reverberate as a profound compelling quality of life that
transcends the events and the disasters that may hound god's people joy is a divine dimension of
living that's not determined or shackled by external experiences. Notice the scriptures,
1 Thessalonians chapter 5, verse 16 and 17. Always be joyful, Paul writes. Keep on praying.
No matter what happens, always be thankful, for this is God's will for you who belong in Christ
Jesus. Always be joyful, no matter what happens. Despite the external circumstances, keep on
praying, keep on being joyful. James 1, 2, and 4. Dear brothers and sisters, whenever trouble comes
your way, let it be an opportunity for joy. For when your faith is tested, your endurance has a
chance to grow. So let it grow. For when your endurance is fully developed, you will be strong
in character and ready for anything if two guys ever understood this text and the spirit of which
is in it obviously it was written later but they understood this concept it's paul and silas
notice this one from acts chapter 16 they are teaching the people to do things that are against
the roman customs was the charge against paul and silas well a mob quickly formed against them and
the city officials ordered them stripped and beaten with wooden rods they were severely beaten
and then thrown into prison the jailer was ordered to make sure they didn't escape so he took no
chances but put them into the inner dungeon and clamped their feet in the stocks around midnight
paul and silas praying singing hymns to god and the other prisoners were listening how many times
you've been beaten for your faith and shackled in the stocks for sharing Jesus. I don't relate to
this. I don't think many of us do. And these guys had every reason to be discouraged. Beaten,
taken not only to the dungeon, but the inner dungeon, the lower dungeon. I mean, they were
serious about keeping these guys out of trouble. But they still had an inner joy. There was
something deep inside of them a relationship with christ a trust in the holy spirit there was
something more profound than the external circumstances could quench it was lived out
in their life you see joy is not dependent on circumstances no matter what horrible circumstances
some of you have endured what tragedies some of you have faced what calamities you have surmounted
you still had a deep abiding confidence and joy in the lord i have shared and talked with you and
you have demonstrated that to me some of you have faced some amazing experiences and yet i know that
your joy is still there because that inner gladness that inner sense of trust is rooted in
your relationship with christ now here's a part of that reality put simply a deep intimate relationship
with Christ gives a deeper joy. A shallow surface relationship with Christ will produce a milder joy
because the joy is dependent on how deep our roots go down into Christ. And I'll add one more thing
this morning. It's important for us to keep in mind our joy in the Lord can be interrupted by
our behavior because we can diminish the joy that we feel by our actions. We can cut off the flow
of joy to our hearts here's how ephesians 5 18 and 19 don't be filled or rather drunk with wine
because that will ruin your life instead let the holy spirit fill and control you then you will
sing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs amongst yourselves making music to the lord in your hearts
and you will always give thanks for everything to god the father in the name of our lord jesus
Christ. Don't do this. Don't be drunk with wine. That's going to ruin your life. Instead, let the
Spirit fill you, control you. First Thessalonians says, chapter 5, verse 19, do not quench the
Spirit. Friends, when we engage in behavior that's prohibited in Scripture, that wounds our
relationship with Christ, it doesn't break it completely. We're still in Christ, but we distance
ourselves from him when we quench the holy spirit we are disobedient when we harbor sin in our
hearts and act on it we diminish our intimacy with christ and our joy is sapped in that experience
our joy becomes weakened you see how that works eleanor roosevelt said something very poignant
and true she said one's philosophy is not best expressed in words it's expressed in the choices
one makes in the long run we shape our lives and we shape ourselves the process never ends until
we die and the choices we make are ultimately our responsibility that's true the choices we make
to allow the spirit to fill us and to be demonstrated in our lives or do we do things
in our free will that are disobedient to christ and that begin to weigh us down and shackle our
joy let me give you some joy busters there are two classic ones the first one is this is unresolved
conflict scripture is very clear that we can let relational ruptures fester and that bitterness can
then set in that can sap our joy hebrews 12 14 and 15 pursue peace with everyone and the holiness
without which no one will see the lord see to it that no one fails to obtain the grace of god
that no root of bitterness springs up and causes trouble and through it many become defiled
is there unresolved conflict in your life family church family friends colleagues
it's time to take care of that because when that conflict is resolved and begins to heal
that joy can can return as you worship the lord number two is unconfessed sin david understood
this when he attempted to ignore the promptings of the holy spirit psalm 32 lays it out well
he writes oh what joy for those whose rebellion is forgiven whose sin is put out of sight
yes what joy for those whose record the lord has cleared of sin whose lives are lived in complete
honesty and notice this when i refused to confess my sin i was weak and miserable and i groaned all
day long day and night your hand of discipline was was heavy upon me and my strength evaporated
like water in the summer's heat but finally finally i confessed all my sins to you i stopped
trying to hide them and i said to myself i will confess my rebellion to the lord and you forgave
me all my guilt is gone is there any unconfessed sin in your life do you live with an addictive
sin pattern of some kind my encouragement to you is to seek a trusted christian friend or a pastor
so you can begin the necessary steps of confessing it and going in a different direction so that
darkness does not pervade your life but you take into you take in the light an unresolved conflict
and unconfessed sin will sap your joy and i want to encourage you to work through those issues so
they will open you up to joy because spending honest intimate time with jesus will fill you again
with joy even in the midst of hard circumstances and my prayer for you is that throughout the week
that you are regularly working through these issues and intimately praying and coming before
the lord so that when you come to this place it's the apex the the high point of your week
that you bring a richness in christ because sin has been confessed and things have been resolved
and you come free unshackled in joy and that we culminate together with all these joyful people
offering praise to god who is the audience that's the hope that can be the reality
if we take our responsibility and our part seriously throughout the week i love what this
gentleman in the third century wrote he was anticipating death and he wrote these words to
a friend he said it's a bad bad world an incredibly bad world but i have discovered in the midst of it
a quiet and holy people who have learned a great secret they have found a joy which is a thousand
times better than any pleasure of our sinful life. They are despised and persecuted, but they care
not. They are masters of their souls. They have overcome the world. These people are the Christians
and I am one of them. Isn't that rich? Amen. Friends, if you can cultivate that kind of joy
in the midst of whatever circumstances
life has for us at the time
and bring that into this house of worship
and offer that corporately together,
as I said, the visual image will blow the roof
right off the top.
Boy, that would be fun, wouldn't it?
Wouldn't that be great?
The Lord will give you a heart of joy
if you confess and you work through things
and you'll bring it and give him joy.
So I want to conclude with this, Romans 14,
17 and 18 Paul writes
for the kingdom of God
is not a matter of what we
eat or drink but of
living a life of goodness
and peace and joy
in the Holy Spirit
if you serve Christ with this
attitude you will please God
and other people
will approve of you too
live a life
of goodness and peace
and joy
in the Holy Spirit
my prayer for you is that will be a daily experience not a sunday to sunday experience
but a monday through saturday and sunday morning as well let's throw in sunday night let's make it
all around experience of joy as you bring that to give to the lord let me pray for you father
thank you for this lovely congregation of people that seek to do your will and seek to be people
of joy and now father i pray that they would respond to your holy spirit that if you're
prompting them to work through an issue an unresolved issue an issue of sin or conflict or
or some kind of disobedience i pray that they would confess and be restored to joy and move on
and i pray that you would make us a joyful people in the midst of pleasurable circumstances
in the midst of difficult circumstances,
that the members of Fullerton First
would be rooted first and foremost
in you and our intimate, awesome,
real relationship with your son.
And that nothing could prevail in their lives.
Nothing would take away their joy.
And that together, Father, we'd come and give that joy,
exult in that joy and rejoice in the Lord together.
And that you would be glorified and praised
and honored and blessed.
So Lord, may that be our life experience in this church together.
May these words of your scripture, may they come alive in our lives and our hearts.
And make them real, Lord. Make them real.
May our worship be full of joy and real as well.
Thank you for Jesus. Thank you for the sacrifice and for the cross.
Thank you for the gift of the Holy Spirit that's with us each and every moment.
May we listen to him.
May we respond and be all that you've called us to be.
In Christ's name we pray this.
Amen.
