It's exciting to be a part of Yorba Linda First Baptist Church and mothering that church 40 years ago.
And Joe Guthrie was the pastor at that time, and Joe, friends, is not doing well.
Joe is very close to going home to the Lord, and he knows that, and Maureen knows that.
I went to see him just a couple days ago, and some days are up, some days are low, but he is ready to be with Jesus.
But he also wants to be at that celebration that's taking place in about 20 minutes.
And so I want us just to pray for a moment for Joe, for his strength, that he can go to that.
And I also want to pray for Myra Riemann.
Tim is out here.
Myra has just undergone open-heart surgery on Friday.
She is a young gal, and they took out a great big tumor out of her heart.
It has been a major surgery, and God was faithful to the Riemann family all the way through.
And it's been a miracle, and she's doing very well.
We want to praise the Lord for that as well.
So it is good to see you in church, my friend.
That's a miracle, and God has blessed that family in some powerful ways.
Let's begin our time with just a word of prayer for Joe and for Myra.
Father, as a church, this is family, and we come before you thanking you for the miracle
that we've seen as you worked in Myra's life in the past few days.
We thank you that your spirit has been so evident and so powerful in that family and
with her and her body.
We thank you those doctors were able to get in there and take that out, that her heart
is beating normally and that she is feeling as good as can be expected given all the trauma to
her body she has experienced. But she was smiling yesterday and praising you and we do too. And thank
you for carrying Tim through the process as a faithful husband all the way. Now bless him with
rest. Bless Myra with rest and the family that has been so diligent by her side. Give them comfort
and Lord, bring her back soon to worship with us, we pray.
And Father, I thank you for Joe,
for his faithful ministry for so many years,
for starting our sister church just down the road,
the next community.
Father, this morning I pray
that you would give him a supernatural burst of energy
that he might go and be a part of that celebration
and receive the joy of knowing
that you called him 40 years ago
to start that experience
and to see what great things you have done
through all of that.
So bless he and Maureen this morning, we pray.
We thank you for the opportunity we have to come alongside a church and a family and to pray for them.
So hear our prayers, we pray.
We love you.
We thank you that we can pray.
And we ask these things in Jesus' name.
And amen.
Amen.
Well, as we enter into the very last part of our campaign in Owning the Vision,
this message as well is family business.
And if you are a guest with us,
if you came at Easter and you've come as part of that,
or you've come with a friend this morning,
I just want to say to you, this is not for you.
You can just relax and enjoy.
I know that what we're going to talk about,
I think will bless you.
And I think there'll be some great challenge for you,
but it's not for you.
So you just relax.
But this is a family discussion
about owning the vision, about our giving,
about what the Lord would have for us.
Three years ago, as I mentioned, we started what we call building up.
And we renovated the facilities in this room.
We put in all new, the new seats that you have are sitting on,
the new carpets, the new sound system.
We built the new stage, put some lights in the room next door.
We gutted out that beautiful, beautiful, it was a beautiful box
but had really run its course.
Our gymnasium next door, we've made it into a multi-purpose room.
We scraped out the basement and made it a coffee bar and Starbucks down there
and weight room and internet and all that stuff.
If you haven't been there, you need to see that.
And the Lord allowed us to have a wonderful elevator
that Betty rides in when nobody's looking, as she shared.
And we're so thankful for all these wonderful things.
It has been an amazing project in three years,
and now we're going to continue to pay for that
and pay down the loan as fast as we can.
And so that's what this message kind of leads us into next week is our banquet
as we celebrate the good things God has done,
and then we take our next set of commitments to pay down that loan
and wipe it out in the next three to six years.
So with that, I want to share again God's heart for our stewardship.
And I heard a story about a pastor, and I relate to this,
who had preached eight sermons on giving.
Can you imagine suffering through that?
And they finally said, Pastor, when are you going to stop preaching on giving?
And he said, when you start giving.
Now this is my last one.
Dan Jackson will be here next week.
But I want to review a few things.
We established a connection in weeks past between our soul and our possessions.
We established the connection because Jesus established that connection.
He said this, where your treasure is, there your heart and your thoughts will be.
He knew that where our treasure was, that's what our heart would beat for.
That's what we'd be excited for.
That's where our commitments would be.
And he knew that how we treat our stuff is a relationship to how we treat God.
Our giving, friends, is a direct reflection of our spiritual maturity.
It took me a long time to figure that out.
The verses were all there, but I never saw the connection.
But when I began to really give unto the Lord,
I noticed that in my own spirit, I learned some things about trust,
about who I was in Christ.
I learned to appreciate the good things I have, the clothes on my back.
And I also began to not worry as much about those things.
As I grew in faith, I had a better perspective on my things.
and it came as a result of prying away
some of the money that I held on to
and saying, Lord, I trust you.
And it wasn't an easy issue for me.
I was rationalized.
But Lord, I'm giving my time.
I'm so poor right now,
especially in seminary.
We had nothing.
But we started to give.
God carried us.
It was amazing.
And out of trusting Him, we gave more.
We have struggled with this journey.
But I realize, and I see it in Scripture now very clearly,
that how we relate to our things is directly related to how we relate to God.
We are so connected.
And we discovered that as we pump up and change our heart, we can change our giving.
Changing our giving changes our heart.
And so I've entitled this message, Pump Up the Volume.
And I don't mean in your car with your bass speakers going thump, thump.
I mean pump up your heart volume.
And you know how you do that?
You give.
Your heart grows when you give.
Your heart grows when you give.
Giving is great because it opens us up to new things about God.
Giving is great because it challenges our materialism,
especially in North Orange County.
Oh my goodness, we're so inundated with so many good things,
but it's easy to get off track and to get interested more in things
than in the things of God.
And a regular giving experience
focuses us on what's important.
It focuses us on the kingdom.
It freely opens up our souls.
But I also realize that that's wonderful to talk about.
I've heard messages on giving for years.
And it never hit me.
And I realize something about that
that's one thing to know it in our minds,
but behavior change is a different matter.
When I got convicted a while back, a few years ago, somewhere I realized that this is the only body I've got.
You really can't, at this point in our technology, I can't trade in much.
This is it.
And I realized as a leader and a shepherd and a pastor that I am the tool.
And I better be here.
And I better be sharp so that I give you good data.
Because if you come and you have a need and you want me to pray or to teach or to lead,
and if my body's falling apart, I'm not giving you the best.
And I realized I need to take care of myself.
And so I began to struggle.
I needed to work out.
I needed to get my heart in good shape.
I needed to eat right.
I needed to sleep right.
It's easy for me to stay up all night because of the issues,
but I have to say no because these people deserve my best, not my worst.
And I struggled.
These are behavior changes.
This is now, but Lord, my calendar is so full.
I don't have time to go to a club and work out.
I had to carve it out.
I had to put it on that calendar.
I'm doing this.
Carol, we're not doing anything else from 4.30 to 6 on these days.
And that bumped a lot of people around.
Behavior change was hard.
The patterns were hard.
Going to bed on time was hard because I wanted to do more.
Getting rid of McDonald's was hard.
And you know, nothing against McDonald's, but I feel a lot better now that I don't go there as much.
My stomach feels better.
Do you know what I'm saying?
This is not a slanderous thing on McDonald's.
I'm just challenging that sometimes the food we eat isn't good for us.
It gets us by.
But those patterns are not healthy.
I had to change my patterns and my behavior.
Lifestyle choices are hard work.
And the same is true with our own stewardship before God.
It requires not only a new head, a new heart, but it requires new behaviors.
And so this message, I want it to be very practical.
I want to share with you some practical tools to help you as you're wrestling with this process.
And I'm indebted to this great material that I pulled out of Wesley Wilmer's book, God and Your Stuff.
He's a professor at Talbot right next door, and I love what he has to say.
The first thing I want to say, if you want to write this down, this is a good list of nine things
to get real practical.
Number one, if you want to give and honor the Lord
and grow in faith and grow in maturity in Christ,
declare, number one, who is Lord of your life?
And ask the question honestly.
Is God the director of your life,
or do your things rule your life?
Who is Lord of your life?
Does God possess your life,
Or do your possessions possess your life?
Which do you strive after when you get really honest?
Which one is really most important?
Jesus said it well.
Matthew 6, 24,
No one can serve two masters, for you will hate the one and love the other,
or be devoted to one and despise the other.
You cannot serve both God and money.
One will take precedence over the other.
Our challenge is that when you regularly give, it puts God back, number one, in your life.
Who is Lord of your life?
Is the kingdom of God the most important thing to you?
Or are you more concerned about the cares of the world?
Declare, friends, who is Lord of your life.
Number two is to really understand what a faithful steward really is.
What is a faithful steward?
A steward is somebody who manages for somebody else.
And if you get honest, you realize your life is not your own.
Jesus gave us life, and in Christ, what he did on the cross, he bought our lives.
We are totally his.
And everything we have, all of our talents, our possessions, our ability to make money, our gifts,
everything is ultimately his.
we are stewards of our lives we are not the owners of our lives and we will be held accountable
before god for what we did with our lives who owns it all is the question in matthew 25 the
parable of the talents jesus talks about how god gives various gifts to various people
that they might invest them in the kingdom of god and then they're given and held account
for what they did and how they used the things God gave them.
Friends, to improve our giving, to improve our heart,
to enlarge our heart, to pump up that heart volume,
we're going to have to understand that we are stewards
and to understand what a steward really is,
is a manager, not the owner.
God owns, we manage.
That's number two.
Number three on our practical steps towards having blessed giving
is to count your blessings.
And to realize that you have more than you think you do.
It's a great exercise sometime to get alone and perhaps go down to the beach or the mountains
and spend an afternoon just reflecting on how much and in what ways God has blessed your life.
Think about your family, who you have as your family, who you have as your friends.
To thank God for the health that you do have, for the food that you do eat,
for your home, your clothes, your work, your money, your faith.
all of these things. A personal inventory to get honest and just say, Lord, thank you
that I have this church family that loves me. Thank you that I've got a beautiful place to
worship you in. Thank you that I've got a vehicle that I can get around town in or I've got
transportation. Thank you for my friends and my family. Have a moral inventory of the good things
that God has given. Count your blessings and you realize how good the Lord has been.
That's number three.
Number four, in the spirit of Nike, give to God first.
Just do it, right?
Nike says just do it.
In our own life, when Rob and I had to really come to grips with what God required,
we had to decide, you know what, we just have to do it.
When I got serious about taking care of my body, just one day I just had to do it.
I just had to walk in to all those machines and stand there
and say something intelligent like, duh, now what?
It was all new, all new.
Didn't understand anything I saw, but I had to just walk in and just do it.
And as I got used to it, now I'm comfortable with it.
I had to change the behavior.
You just have to do it.
Behavior change is hard the first time and the second time
and the third time it's a little easier and the fourth time and 12 months later, you're just doing
it. You got to just do it. I know this, friends. When you give to God off the bottom, you'll have
nothing left. If you give to God out of your leftovers, you'll never have any leftovers.
And every month you'll say, oh, I know I should give to God. You know, I was meaning to do that,
but this came up and that came up and something will always come up.
God will always get pushed to next month.
Because why? He's always there.
Same thing in our relationships too, isn't it?
Well, I've got to get this done, but they'll always be there.
So I'll push it off.
Friends, if we learn to give God from the top first,
then you take care of things with what you have left over.
It is amazing to me how God will stretch things
and allow things to happen you never could imagine.
We've got to give God off the top.
And let me challenge you with this.
I don't want to heap any legalism on you,
but I do think that tithing is a biblical value
that I see in both the Old and the New Testaments underneath.
And it seems like every New Testament example
about giving the first fruits goes even beyond the tithe.
And I don't think anything falls short of it.
And I love what Randy Alcorn said in this great book, The Treasure Principle.
He asks this poignant question.
He says to God,
God, do you really expect less of me, a person who has your Holy Spirit
and lives in the wealthiest society in human history,
do you expect less of me than you demanded of the poorest Israelite?
And that's a good question.
Because we can ask, well, is tithing really real?
But you know what?
God demanded that to keep their hearts pure and soft before Him of the poorest Israelite.
I think we, as in a wealthy nation, we can certainly say,
God, that would be a minimum place to start just to get our hearts in the right direction.
And yet I'm sad to say that Barna, George Barna, a great pollster, reports that tithing is very rare.
Only 32% of born-again believers actually claim to tithe,
but his numbers say it's actually only 12%, and it's there in Scripture.
And I want us to get honest with that.
He also reports this, that the more money a person makes, the less likely they are to tithe.
Isn't that interesting?
That goes against that value.
If I just get a little more, I'll give to God.
We never do.
Because there's always something else in our life that will fill it up.
Tithing pumps up the volume of our heart.
And it pumps up the volume of the ministries that we can do.
Ministries that you and your children and your grandchildren benefit from.
I would just challenge us, just do it.
And let God take care of you.
And see what He'll do.
Try it. See what happens.
Number five in this journey of practical tips, give to God systematically.
In Corinthians, Paul said this,
On every Lord's Day, each of you should put aside some amount of money in relation to what you've earned and save it for the offering.
He's saying, look, just set aside some money.
We're asking the same thing for owning the vision.
Set some money aside.
Sometimes on a practical basis, we don't know how to do that.
It is hard.
Maybe you need to get another account.
And as soon as your check comes in, you just put some in there, and you don't touch it
because you don't have it anymore.
Some here do automatic withdrawal.
Boom, to the Lord.
In our family, we happen to now be paying our bills online.
We've got a computer relationship with the bank, and every day we can see where things
are at.
When the check goes in, we just, boom, right away, it just goes right to the Lord, right to the church.
It's just done, first thing.
And that way, we live and deal with the rest.
And God takes care of us somehow.
If it feels uncomfortable to think about paying like that, God, it feels like a bill.
Think of this.
Bills represent commitments.
They represent the things we're committed to.
And I'm committed, number one, to God.
So he gets the first bill.
Boom, to the Lord.
Our tithe is our commitment to the Lord.
Number six, to give according to your means.
In Paul in 2 Corinthians, he writes this.
I'm not saying, he writes, that you must do it,
even though the other churches are eager to do it.
This is the one way to prove your love is real.
You know how full of love and kindness our Lord Jesus Christ was.
Though he was very rich, yet for your sakes he became poor,
so that by his poverty he could make you rich.
I suggest that you finish what you started a year ago
for you were the first to propose this idea
and you were the first to begin doing something about it.
Now, he says, you should carry this project through
to completion just as enthusiastically as you began it.
Give whatever you can according to what you have.
If you're really eager to give,
it isn't important how much you're able to give.
God wants you to give what you have,
not what you don't have.
He's not asking that we give so that we become destitute.
We're called to give from our prosperity.
What's interesting in some statistics I saw is that over the last decade,
giving to the kingdom of God, to Christianity, has increased about 20%.
But recreational spending has gone up 125%.
And debt spending, what do you think?
More or less?
More.
550%.
And from that, I think we need to say, friends, we've got to live a little differently.
Behavior change.
Tim Stafford, in a great article from Christianity Today in 1997, he writes this.
He says, compared to most of the rest of the world, ordinary Americans have an abundance.
He says, compared to our grandparents, we are rich.
And then he says, Sylvia and John Ronsvale, who have spent years studying church finances,
They compute, the average American today earns almost four times what the average American earned in 1921
after adjusting for inflation and taxes.
There is far more wealth today than there was back in the early 20s.
He writes, today's ordinary middle class citizens live like the rich banker in their grandparents' town.
And you know how I summarize that?
Friends, we've all become Mr. Potter in It's a Wonderful Life.
Remember him?
And he was the snarly guy, and he had all the money.
But friends, compared to where that generation was in that time,
we have the kind of things, for crying out loud, we eat in restaurants.
That's a big deal compared to the early part of our last century.
There's been a great accumulation of wealth in this wonderful country.
We're very blessed.
We are very, very blessed.
And God is asking for us to give that we might continue to receive from him,
but to keep our hearts soft and to pump up the volume of our heart.
Number seven, God asks we give cheerfully.
When I first started giving to the Lord regularly, I was not cheerful.
I knew the Bible told me to be cheerful.
I said, God, you're going to have to make me cheerful because I don't get this yet.
When I went to work out for the first time and staring at all those machines,
I was not cheerful.
In fact, after pumping my first, you know, block of iron that day,
I went home and I was really, really sore.
I thought, this is terrible.
I can't walk.
I can't go back and do that.
It hurt.
But in time, it smooths out, and then you get stronger,
and things become good.
And I've learned to give cheerfully.
Now it's actually something we are joyful to be able to give to this church
as a part of our tithe, and then give above and beyond that
to owning the vision.
we're glad we can do that because we know it's going to be good for our souls and god
is blessed and he can use that for his kingdom it's all his anyway give cheerfully number eight
give regularly first corinthians 16 paul says now about the money being collected for the christians
in jerusalem you should follow the same procedures i gave the churches in galatia on every lord's day
each of you should put aside some amount of money in relation to what you've earned save it for the
offering. Don't wait until I get there and try to collect it all at once. He's saying here in a
timeless principle that we're to give regularly to the Lord's work. If your paycheck comes twice
a month, then twice a month is the principle. If it comes once, once is the principle. You get paid
every day, then set aside every day. The principle is, as you receive, you are to give to God from
the first, whatever that relationship looks like. And again, I want to say giving reminds us who is
first in our life. It reorients our vision. It breaks our materialism. It challenges us
who is first, and it puts God's first. Number nine, and I lied. There are ten. Forgive me.
Number nine, give to God generously and quietly. If you recall the widow that gave quietly the two
mites in the temple that day, the religious leaders gave with a fanfare, and they wanted
everybody to make sure they saw it, and they made sure it all clanked very loud. She put in two
small coins, and Jesus said she gave more than all the rest, and she did it quietly.
It's the kind of heart God is looking for. She gave out of her gratitude towards God,
and God was blessed. And finally, I want to say number 10, to give regardless of your circumstances.
Crown ministry is something I'm very, very excited about.
In fact, our crown study continues this afternoon.
It's a Bible study about stewardship.
It's really, really good.
Changed my life, changed Robin's life.
And some statistics I got from that material says
the average Christian family in America
spends $400 more than it earns every year on average.
That's a Christian family.
And those same Christian families, on average,
are spending 23% of their income in paying off debt,
not include the mortgage on the home.
Mortgage is something different.
And one of the things that Crown will challenge us
is the issue of debt competes with our life
and devotion to Christ.
Once we get into debt, we are in slavery to the bank.
We no longer have our lives.
We are in slavery to somebody else.
And one of the great challenges of Crown
as we work through the material
is we actually set our debt-free day.
And we work at a way of paying these things off.
We might be free of slavery to the banks,
and have more money for God's kingdom.
And it's a wonderful process to go through together as a small group
and struggle with how we're going to do that.
The issue of debt is a big issue in an economy like ours.
And it's easy to say, you know what, Lord?
Once I pay off this debt, then I can start giving to you.
But friends, there's always something else.
And there's always another debt that we take on.
Instead, the challenge is this.
give to God first, pay off your debts
as you're able. And I have
seen at work where God sometimes
will bless in ways that you couldn't imagine
that you could now pay off the debts
earlier than you thought because you put
God first. Or He might
teach you don't ever do that again and string you out
for years. I don't know. But
you got yourself there, but God
still wants first fruits. We've got to give
according
or despite our circumstances
until we learn to
give to God, regardless of our circumstances, we will never be fully committed to Christ and the
kingdom the way that Jesus was challenging those disciples to be about. Until we really understand
it's time, it's talent, it's treasure, it's all of our lives. Until we, if we hold back, we're still
not fully committed. Give regardless of your circumstances and allow God to work. I want to
take a few moments and just talk about where we're at as a church right now in relationship
to our giving. I want to share
first of all some very exciting things that God
has been doing in our church in the
past year. Since we've been
here, since I have been here, I have never
seen a youth ministry this large
and expanding at this rapid rate
with kids coming to Christ
and being baptized and there's a whole
list still coming to be baptized.
It is amazing.
And Brian and Ozzie have done a phenomenal
job of shepherding leaders
and raising up leaders that are now
shepherding students and kids are
coming to faith all over the place. It is so amazing. That's good. We, for the first time in
many years, actually have a very thriving young adult ministry, college ministry that Eric and
Ozzie are leading that is also reaching onto these campuses and bringing people that we've
never seen before onto our campus on Thursday nights. It's really exciting. One of the things
I'm concerned about is when high school students have a great program, statistically we know that
when they hit 18 there's a gap between 18 and on the average about 25 where they go off into the
wasteland and then suddenly they start dating seriously or getting married and then they begin
to come back to the church the sad part is in those years between 18 and the average 25 they
go through a whole series of issues in life and bring back the scars to show it and it's my heart
that we not send them off into that wasteland but that we have the kind of ministry that keeps them
tied into Christ and growing
in their new young adulthood
and not getting sucked into the things
of the world. We had an amazing
first year of kids play.
We had parents that said, I can't believe
this is your first year.
It ran so tight they could not
believe that we were
still behind the scenes. You know, who's
going to do what and how is this going to get pulled off?
First time anything is always a challenge.
It was an amazing year.
Phil Tomek and Jim Bennett and the coaches
and the referees did a phenomenal job.
And there were children and parents
making decisions for Jesus Christ for the first time
as a result of that ministry.
It brought tears to my eyes.
It's been amazing.
On Friday nights, we have an adult basketball league.
And I am proud to say we are in first place
because this league is competitive.
And I always check with the scores to see how we're doing.
And Kent Loomis and Brian have been leading that.
And there have been new men getting involved
in our fellowship from basketball on Friday nights, and we're going to win the championship.
So that's just another comment. Our karate ministry is getting
bigger all the time. We have new classes on Sundays that are expanding for learning and
enrichment. Seminars are coming, although one just canceled. Not our fault.
Their problem. We'll do it again. But we've got seminars even this afternoon on
raising children and all kinds of things. Dino was phenomenal.
There's new leaders coming into ministry that are growing up. All these amazing things.
In the past six weeks, 25 people have given their lives to Jesus Christ for the first time.
And that's why we do this.
Amen.
And that is miraculous.
I have never seen in my time here that rapid an experience of the kingdom beginning to grow.
And I'm so excited and so proud of this church for seeing that kind of thing happening.
We're about to enter the second phase of our building campaign.
And despite a challenging economy, we are feeling encouraged that our second phase will go well.
And we look forward to seeing in the next few weeks how God blesses that experience.
And just looking around this room, there are new faces today, last week, a wonderful Easter, a wonderful Good Friday.
There are visitors coming all the time.
And here's some next steps.
Because of the families that God is bringing to us, young families with children,
there is a need for us to hire full time a children's
and families pastor. Ann has done a phenomenal job
in this past year being our interim but she cannot continue to work
in her own business and keep on helping us in this business
and she's going to be retiring from that position probably around August
July in that phase getting through VBS this year. We need
to have a full time children and families pastor that will nurture and shepherd
the teachers, Sunday school leaders for the children,
those volunteers, cast vision,
lead in experiences for families to come
and to tie in and to minister
to the challenges of the families of today.
There are great challenges in the families of today.
And we need a pastor that's gifted
and experienced in doing that,
that will begin to help us with small groups
and to pull people together into this ministry.
I'm very excited about it.
We've got to start looking now.
And yet, despite all these wonderful victories, friends, we're at a real crisis point, a real
challenge in our budget this year.
We took on a very aggressive budget from last year.
We took on a very aggressive budget last year.
And this year, we went even further.
We went further because as we tried to trim back, we couldn't trim anything back because
the momentum that was there and building.
And so we stretched.
But the reality is we're just not making it at the moment.
and we're at a crisis, and we're trying to pay some bills.
And it's really difficult for me to stand here
and share all these amazing things God is doing
and also feel like, but man, we're in trouble.
And that is hard for me to experience.
And as teams of leaders, we've been struggling with how can this be?
Well, we've analyzed it this way.
Number of factors at work.
On the downside, we have approximately 30% of our people giving 80% of the income.
That still is true.
but there are a lot of people coming on board
and the accounting department tells us
that their giving is beginning to rise
and that we're now giving more than we've ever seen before
in the history of this church
that's a praise
we voted in an aggressive budget
to take on these kind of ministries
that I know we can reach
I believe we can reach
and it's still yet challenging for us
and it's still out there
but we also had $40,000 shortfall from the last year
and that plays into the accounting issue
And I also believe we're under attack from the enemy.
I do not believe, I believe rather, that he doesn't want us to be successful as we go forward.
And some of my key leaders this morning woke up sick and are not even here.
Prayer people that usually come and that labor in prayer during our services, they're not feeling well.
I got up and felt woozy and sick this morning.
I had vertigo all morning.
Why is that?
Because I'm talking about these issues.
Why did I have a migraine yesterday?
because we're under attack.
And friends, I'm not one to look for the devil under every rock.
That's not my style.
But I do know he exists.
I do know these are real issues.
And I do know that we are at a place
where we are about to punch through and move into some new territory
and he doesn't want us to go.
And I want us as a body
to really take these challenges seriously.
And so as we're going to move into this time,
we need to be praying.
Because unless we reverse some of these negative trends,
There's going to be some drastic and probably far-reaching cuts
to every aspect of our budget, including our staff,
and I don't want to see that happen.
And so instead of haranguing anymore about all this stuff,
I want God to speak, and I want us to pray.
This is a family issue, and again, if you are a guest,
you are peering into a family discussion.
We are glad that you are here.
And I hope you'll experience the power as the family prays
about a family business matter.
We're going to gather into groups in a few moments,
and we're going to pray like this.
We're going to pray that God is going to bind evil forces
from antagonizing our ministry.
We're going to pray that God's going to bless the homes
and the businesses of the church family.
And we're going to pray that God will make us faithful
in giving to what is His.
And so at this time, I'm asking that if you're a part
of an intercessory prayer team leader,
if you're one of those folks, if you're in prayer force
and you're comfortable praying out loud,
I want you to scatter throughout.
But I want you to gather in groups of four or six people.
and I want you to pray for a little while
and I'll bring us out of a time of prayer
and then we're going to sing together
we're going to pray against the enemy
for a blessing on our people
and for us to give as God calls us to give
and watch these trends reverse
it's a spiritual matter
and we're going to begin in the spirit
praying in the spirit
so I'm going to encourage you right now to break
four to six, eight people
