Solomon actually grew up years ago around here, and it's good to have him back and his wife, Veronica, and brings great gifts and talents to our ministry here.
Thank you for your gift this morning.
Well, church, it's good to be with you. We have been through a week together, haven't we?
For those who are guests, we have lost, just this past week, two key leaders in our midst that have so encouraged and blessed and led our church.
And it's been a difficult week for all of us, me personally as well.
And yet, God continues to move forward, and we remember our leaders that have gone before us,
and He continues to raise up new leaders as well.
God's got a purpose. He gives us new dreams, and He helps us to dream again.
And that's been our series for this summer, is this daring to dream again,
and looking at some of the barriers that actually hold us back.
from being all that God wants us to be.
We looked at our painful pasts and how that can hold us back
and we were challenged to give those to the Lord that He might use them and heal them that we might move on.
We looked last week at the possibility of how often we can miss God in the everyday experiences of life
and when we lose track of God in the everyday, it's hard to dream the big dreams.
but when we recapture seeing him move with us day by day we can begin to see and hope for the big
things that he's doing and today i'd like for us to look at another barrier that can hold us back
from being all that he wants us to be and that's our self-centered dreams see god wants us to dream
dreams that he has for us and often we want to dream dreams that we want for us and that's a
real pickle. And how do we get out of it? Who's going to win? Sociologists and culture watchers
have told us for quite some time that we live in the me generation, right? It's all about me.
My needs, my wants, me, me, me. But if it's all about me, then there's no room for you,
and there's certainly no room for him if it's all about me.
The Wall Street Journal, a pollster, reported that our society, quote,
places less value on sacrifice as a moral good,
less value than before on what we owe to others as a matter of moral obligation,
and certainly less value on restraints in the matters of sexuality.
We don't have any boundaries or barriers anymore.
or we just go because it's all about me.
But if we're going to be all that God wants us to be,
we're going to have to get beyond ourselves,
get beyond our self-absorbed dreams and dream the dreams that God has for us.
And it's not easy to do.
James and John, consider these two from Mark chapter 10.
James and John, the sons of Zebedee, came over and spoke to him.
Teacher, they said to Jesus, we want you to do us a favor.
What is it, he asked.
In your glorious kingdom, we want to sit in places of honor next to you, they said.
One at your right and the other at your left.
Jesus answered, you don't know what you're asking.
Are you able to drink from the bitter cup of sorrow I'm about to drink?
Are you able to be baptized with the baptism of suffering that I must be baptized with?
Oh yes, they said, we are able.
And Jesus said, you will indeed drink from my cup and be baptized with my baptism,
but I have no right to say who will sit on the thrones next to mine.
God has prepared those places for the ones he has chosen.
When the ten disciples discovered what James and John had asked, they were indignant.
And Jesus called them together and said,
you know that in this world kings are tyrants and officials lord it over the people beneath them,
but among you it should be different.
Whoever wants to be a leader among you must be your servant,
and whoever wants to be first must be the slave of all.
For even I, the Son of Man, came here not to be served,
but to serve others and to give my life as a ransom for many.
James and John, after all that time with Jesus,
they want to sit in the place of honor.
Their dreams were still about them.
But as time went on, God began to work with these guys.
They began to dream dreams, God's dreams.
And eventually they began to proclaim the kingdom, and it wasn't about them, it was about others.
When you start following Jesus, you're still going to struggle with these issues.
We're still going to struggle with ourselves.
And though we have the Holy Spirit, though God is blessing our lives, there's still going to be these struggles inside.
We have joy in Jesus Christ.
When His Spirit fills us, there's joy and there's peace,
but there's still struggle, there's still brokenness, there's still pain.
We live in a broken and a fallen world,
and we have emotions that will hurt, and we can struggle.
Jesus struggled over these issues.
Jesus struggled with the same issue of God's dreams and His dreams.
Look at the struggle He went through in a little garden before He went to the cross.
Matthew 26,
Then Jesus brought them to an olive grove called Gethsemane, and He said,
Sit here while I go on ahead to pray.
He took Peter and Zebedee's two sons, James and John, and He began to be filled with anguish and deep distress.
He told them, My soul is crushed with grief to the point of death.
Stay here and watch with Me.
He went a little further, and He fell face down on the ground, praying,
My Father, if it is possible, let this cup of suffering be taken away from me,
yet I want Your will, not mine.
Yet I want Your will, not mine.
Can you hear the anguish and the struggle and the distress in Jesus' very soul
comes out of this passage?
Before going to the cross, Jesus pleaded,
If there's any other way that he can avoid the bloody, painful ordeal that God would reveal then and there,
Jesus didn't want the cross, but he was obedient, and he got beyond those desires.
Friends, don't be surprised when an important juncture in your life,
when an important place of spiritual growth that you still struggle,
you want to hold back, and you battle inside,
knowing what you need to do and should do, and yet what you want to do.
Don't be surprised at that battle.
If we're going to move beyond the me generation to get beyond ourselves,
we may have to struggle at times.
It won't always be easy.
Because walking in Christ, though it's a wonderful journey,
it's a journey, it can be a struggle.
It's a day-by-day growing experience.
And growth sometimes is not easy.
It's a day-by-day listening to the Holy Spirit
instead of choosing what I want
or what's convenient or comfortable or complacent.
Jesus said, my Father, if it's possible, take this cup.
He was in touch with his sorrow.
He was in touch with his struggle.
And yet he desired to do what was right.
And in the same breath, he said these words,
yet I want your will, not mine.
Your will, not mine.
Well, I want God's will, not mine, most of the time.
But not always.
Not always.
And I need for my will to get smaller
and God's will to get larger in my heart, in my life.
We all struggle with these things.
And so I'd like to give us some practical ways
that we can begin to make that shift
to dream God's dreams, get beyond ourselves.
And they come out of this rich passage in John chapter 13.
Beginning in verse 1.
Before the Passover celebration,
Jesus knew that his hour had come to leave this world and return to the Father.
He now showed the disciples the full extent of his love.
It was time for supper, and the devil had already enticed Judas, son of Simon Iscariot,
to carry out his plan to betray Jesus.
Jesus knew the Father had given him authority over everything,
and that he had come from God and would return to God.
so he got up from the table and took off his robe and wrapped a towel around his waist and
poured the water into the basin and then he began to wash the disciples feet
to wipe them with the towel that he had around him when he came to simon peter peter said to him
lord why are you going to wash my feet jesus replied you don't understand now what i'm doing
but someday you will. No, Peter protested, you will never wash my feet. Jesus replied,
but if I don't wash you, you won't belong to me. Simon Peter exclaimed, then wash my hands and my
head as well, Lord, and not just my feet. A number of things we can learn from that poignant scene
with Jesus and the disciples. To get beyond ourselves, number one, is to do like Jesus and
to put love into action.
Jesus put love into action.
He wasn't just the words he spoke.
It was the display of love that he gave in his life.
He served.
He took on the attire of a servant.
He washed feet.
As we've talked about smelly sandals on dusty roads in Palestine,
what a mess that would have been.
Oh my, oh my.
And yet, Jesus, God of the universe, humbly sits before these disciples and tenderly cleans their feet and bathes them.
He lived servanthood.
And though He cleansed the temple in strength, He then washed their feet in meekness.
He lived His message.
He put love into action.
He was consistent.
How about us?
Do we live that message?
I love this concept.
If Christianity were illegal, would you be convicted?
because you get convicted on your actions.
Do we love enough that they would say,
that's one of his disciples?
See, our problem often is we live very busy lives.
We don't have time to care for others, barely ourselves.
We say we love others, but, friends,
love is more than just words.
As James says, you can't just say,
be warm and filled, God bless you.
It's acting on those words.
Jesus often pulled away, though, from the crowds
and recharged his batteries, spent time with the Father,
that he would have more to give to others.
I'm leaving three weeks so I can recharge,
so I am sharper and better and more full in the fall.
We need that time of recluse.
We also need to act and live out the message.
So to get beyond the me generation and dream God's dreams for my life
and for all of our lives, we have to put our love into action,
and live out our servanthood.
Step out sometimes from our comfort zone
and let God meet us there
as we live and serve.
Number two, we get beyond ourselves
by knowing who we are.
Jesus knew who he was.
He knew, he says, he came from God
and was going back to God.
Dr. Sledge points out that many in the church
serve not from a fullness of relationship in Christ,
not out of a clear sense of who they are in Christ,
but out of a desire for others to tell them that they're okay.
We can often confuse our motivation for service.
There was a book many of you remember, I'm Okay, You're Okay.
Remember that?
I never read it, but I heard about it.
There's a parody of that book now.
It's called I'm Dysfunctional, You're Dysfunctional.
Here's the challenge, though.
So many people live their lives in the church, outside the church,
struggling to be okay.
So much energy, so much desire to be okay in the eyes of other people.
We just want them to give us the nod that you're okay.
And we do so many things to get people's attention, to somehow be validated by people to be okay.
And yet when we serve out of that desire to be okay, we want more to be recognized than to please God.
That's the challenge for us.
and down the road if we serve out of our struggle to be validated to be okay instead of out of a
fullness in Christ we turn bitter we get empty and bitter because we're always struggling for
man's approval and not for God's and if we don't get it from somebody else we get raw inside and
we decide I'm never going to do this again I'm never going to stretch in the church I don't want
to serve and do these things. But friends, we're doing it out of a motivation for others to say
you're okay instead of a fullness from God's Spirit. Instead of knowing we are accepted in
Christ. He died for you. He loves you. He's filled you with His Spirit and sealed you for heaven.
you are loved, you are lovely, and we serve out of that gratitude from that position.
It doesn't matter whether others in the church pat us on the back or not, though that's nice,
and I really try and bless and do a lot of back patting and scratching, but you know what? If
we're serving to get the pastor's approval or each other, we're going to end up bankrupt.
But if we serve out of drawing nourishment from Christ, out of a blessing to serve because of
what He did for us. Whether it gets noticed or not, that's where it's rich. And you don't run
out of juice when you stay close to God and keep drawing from Him. If we're drawing from each other
for the recognition, we'll go bankrupt. We'll go dry. And so we have to know who we are to get
past our selfish dreams and the me generation, to get past our agendas. We need to let God help us
understand who we are in Him and live out of that new identity in Christ. Here's a Bible study for
you. Go to the New Testament and look up all the verses where Paul and others say, you are in Christ
and learn those and apply them to you. You are new in Christ. You are loved and accepted
and being grown by Christ.
Don't worry about other people.
Live out of that place.
It's a stretch.
It's a challenge.
Let God use your gifts.
Not trying to be like the other person with gifts,
but be you.
Because He made you unique.
He loves you as you are.
Know who you are in Christ.
You can do great things with pure motivation.
Number three,
if we're going to get beyond ourselves,
We have to be willing to be served.
That's a different spin.
Sounds counterintuitive.
The me generation likes to be served, but they like to be served.
We like to be served with no strings attached.
We want to pay our money and get our product, have somebody put that plate in front of us
and say, whatever we can do for you.
We like that, but we can leave that restaurant no strings attached.
We like to be free.
We like to be alone.
If we're going to get beyond the me generation,
we've got to understand that we're not islands,
that we must live interconnected lives.
Jesus challenges Peter to be obligated.
Jesus approached Peter to wash his feet,
and Peter objected.
Oh, no, you don't.
And Jesus said, unless I wash you,
you have no part with me.
Jesus was teaching Peter to receive and to give.
We do owe others something.
The me generation wants to live independent lives,
do what we want.
when we want. The Christian life says how I live matters to you, how you live matters to me. We're
interconnected. Sometimes I have to allow myself to be served. That's hard in my role. I like to
serve others and I get squeamish sometimes when people serve me. But I'm learning that if I don't
let you serve me sometimes, I rob you of using your gifts and your compassion for me. I rip you
off, and I'm growing in that. We have to learn to love each other and give and receive, but with
giving and receiving, there's a bond. We have to live out that bond together and not just be islands
separate and alone. To get beyond ourselves, sometimes we have to let others love us and be
in that connection, that relationship, be willing to be served. Finally, we're going to get beyond
ourselves, get beyond our selfish dreams, and let God dream dreams in us and follow His will.
we're going to have to establish some godly goals and I want to spend a few more moments on this
part. Goals are important. Goals lead us somewhere. Goals are outcomes or better futures that we
imagine down the road. They're part of what you want your life to look like, the organization to
look like, your family to look like, your own life to look like at a time in the future and they're
helpful for figuring out where you want to go and how to get there. If you have no desired future,
it doesn't matter what you do. If you don't know where you're going, it doesn't matter tomorrow
what you do. I love this from Alice. Said Alice to the Cheshire cat, would you please tell me
which way I ought to go from here? Said the cat, that depends a good deal on where you want to go.
Oh, I don't much care, said Alice. And the cat said, doesn't matter which way you go.
Do you have goals for your life?
And are they godly goals?
And are you moving towards them or are you just ambling along?
It doesn't really matter what you do, where you go.
You're not planning for anywhere and you'll get there, by the way, if you don't plan.
You'll be nowhere.
David Maines gives us a helpful acronym for establishing godly goals.
If we're going to get beyond ourselves, we need to establish some goals that God is going to grow us towards as we go towards him.
Here's how you look at it.
goals get god's input own it apply it live it and then seek god's input again get god's input
own it apply it live it and seek his input again let's unpack those for a moment number one
to get god's input paul says in ephesians chapter 5 don't act thoughtlessly but try to understand
what the Lord wants you to do.
Are the dreams that you have
for your life, for ministry,
are they consistent
with what God is doing in your life?
Or are you resisting
what He wants to do?
You're setting up a plan
in a different direction
than where He wants to take you.
My prayer is that you would ask God
to begin to reveal,
Lord, what is it you're doing in my life?
Our network class
really kind of helps us understand those things.
God's gifting our experiences, our heart, our passions,
and beginning to say, Lord, how do they line up
that I can set goals and move forward
towards where you're going in my life?
I encourage you to be a part of that.
Get God's input.
Lord, what are you doing in me?
I want my goals for my life
to be consistent with what you're doing in my life.
So get his input.
Number two, own it.
Fix it in your mind.
We've been talking about some of these goals kind of along the way.
If God wants you to be a holy person, then you begin to fix in your mind,
God, you want me to grow through certain areas in my life.
You want me to rise above.
That's what I want to be about.
And you fix it.
This is where I'm going.
This is who I'm going to be.
Jesus wants me to read the Scriptures every day.
I own that.
okay, Lord, I will become a person that lives out that reality.
I will read Scripture every day.
Lord, you want me to be a person who helps people during the week.
I will own that.
You want me to grow in my training and to go back to school.
I'm sensing that.
I own that.
I will be this educated person you want me to be.
Tell God his goals are important to you.
Make them your own by believing them.
Write them down.
Place them on that mirror as you brush your teeth every day.
Look at them.
This is who I'm becoming.
I own it.
It's me because God is working in my life
and I want to be consistent with what he's doing.
Number three is to apply it.
Start living out what you eventually want to become.
It's been a great help for me.
Start living now what you want to become
and you get there.
Ask God to empower you to do what he wants you to do.
number four to live it live it day and day get people around you to support you to encourage
you to challenge you i've been meeting for quite a while now with some two other men on the once
a week going through our life transformation groups going through these character questions
and talking about our goals for each for our lives and helping each other to arrive by being
accountable to each other it's been wonderful you need other people to keep you on track
and to encourage you.
That's why we can't be islands,
because we need each other to speak to each other's lives.
That's how we live it.
And we seek God's input again.
Friends, I just want to challenge us
to not buy into the me generation.
Be a member of the Jesus generation
and live godly goals for our lives.
Move beyond just our selfish ones
and live godly goals.
I'll close with a story that really impacted me.
After two years of college,
says the writer in the study of business theory that nearly bored me to death i returned to the
family business prepared to follow in my father's footsteps i loved the adrenaline of the marketplace
i was charged by the challenge to do things a little more efficiently to organize better to
maximize resources and to make a ton of money i knew where i was headed and what i wanted
But then came a leading from the Holy Spirit.
The director of a Christian camp that I had worked at during the summers
pulled me off to the side and asked me a question that shook me to my very foundation.
Bill, what are you doing with your life that will last forever?
What are you doing with your life that will last forever?
He says, that question haunted me.
I began to realize that my whole existence was wrapped around the here and the now.
Everything I was doing was self-centered and temporary.
And that question, well, it stripped me naked.
I discovered that without the planes and the boats and the fast cars,
I had little to give my life meaning.
As I continued to work at that company, I felt more and more restless.
Finally, I decided I needed to serve the Lord more directly.
I wanted to be on the front lines of that spiritual battle.
So I told my dad of that decision.
He said, fine, Bill.
Now turn in your credit cards and your keys to the plane, the boat, and the cars.
And don't entertain any ideas of ever coming back.
And he writes, I got a job in the shipping department of a Christian organization in the Chicago area.
I made minimum wage.
I was 19.
I'll never forget the time my father flew in to visit me.
I was standing between two middle-aged women stuffing little plastic awards into cellophane wrappers.
My dad looked at his son for whom he held such high hopes.
Not one usually given to changing his mind, he took me to lunch and he said,
you can get on that plane and come home this afternoon.
But I told him no.
And he writes, I didn't want to miss the adventure.
I didn't want to miss the adventure.
And he concludes by saying, and I meant it.
I don't want to miss the adventure with God.
Well, that 19-year-old young man is Bill Hybels,
the pastor of the largest and most influential church in America today.
He didn't want to miss the adventure.
And the question of what in your life are you doing that will last forever
is a haunting question for all of us.
Are we living our lives for ourselves and just for the temporal things that make us feel good today and tomorrow?
Or are we living for the big dreams that God has that impact today and tomorrow and forever in eternity?
And I'm challenged by that.
I hope we all are.
And my prayer is that we will live godly dreams and set godly goals and pursue them.
that we might become all that he is challenging us and growing us to be.
And I'm thinking about goals.
God had a goal, too, of bringing us to himself.
I was recently at a festive gathering above the Brea Hills,
and it was fun for me to just look out at the beauty of the valley
and to see all the buildings and the cars and the college and all these things.
But you know, from that distance, you begin to see how what is a large shopping mall looks very, very small.
And all the cars that we spend so much time and money acquiring look very tiny.
And suddenly I had this little different perspective that life and all the things that we experience
from just a few hundred feet up look small.
And then I imagine, from God's perspective, we're just a speck in a galaxy in a universe.
And oh, we are so small.
and for the God, the Creator, that stands outside of all of that
to care about these little four- to six-foot creatures
on this little planet swirling in this galaxy
was just kind of overwhelming to me.
I thought, that is amazing that He would care for us
and that He would enter that little world as one of us.
Why? Because of his goal to bring us back to himself.
Because this little wayward planet, these little wayward people have done our own thing,
we've gone our own way, we've rebelled against the very creator,
and yet he still loves us after all that.
That's a miracle.
And so God's goal was to bring us back to himself,
and so he began to architect a whole plan, a whole salvation plan,
whereby at the right time the Bible says
Jesus came, God in the flesh.
He taught us how to live,
showed us how to serve,
and then went to the cross
as the final sacrifice to end it all.
To take away all of our sin
and our rebellion and our waywardness
and our attitudes
and all the things that alienate us
from a pure and holy God.
And they were nailed to a bloody cross
and remove forever.
And so when I think about the verse
that our sins are as far as the east is from the west,
there's a song written recently
that describes our sins
as sitting on the bottom of the ocean.
That really ministers to me
and I hope it does to you
because He loves you
and He cares for you.
And that is a miracle of miracles
that the God of the universe
would care about these little creatures.
But He made us.
He's got a plan for us and a purpose.
and He wants you to know Him
and be in a love relationship with Him.
He wants to fill your life.
He wants to do great things through you
and He can do all of that because of the cross
and the symbols that are here.
Jesus is the light of the world.
He is our Savior.
This candle represents His light shining
and He wants to fill us and live that through us.
And so may we take these elements today
in a spirit of gratitude,
and of needing nourishment from him
to be all about what he wants to do in our lives.
And I praise God for who he is and what he has done.
The miracle of creation, the miracle of redemption,
the miracle of everlasting life.
And it's ours because of what he did in Jesus Christ.
Let us pray. Thank you so much.
