But the real essence of goodness is what's inside and that God is good all the time. And so we're going to do that now. God is good all the time. I think you've got it, so let's do it one more time. God is good all the time. And all the people said, Amen.
Let's stand up as we worship this evening. Praise be to God.
I heard you shouting how good God is, and that is our theme tonight.
And as we experience two candidates, a couple in baptism,
we see them express before you and before God their commitment
to follow Jesus, that he would be Lord of their lives.
And they express that in this incredible symbol of living and dying and being raised again.
The plane of the water has numerous symbols.
Water, of course, is a cleansing agent.
And we see that in baptism,
that Jesus does truly cleanse us
by his blood shed on the cross for us.
We also see it as a water grave
where they die to self
and are raised with Christ to new life.
And they're expressing their solidarity
with living for him.
It also points to the resurrection
that one day we will have eternal life.
So what an incredible experience baptism is for the candidates,
and what a thrill to celebrate as the family of God together.
I'd like to introduce to you Josh and Don Youngman.
Would you come?
These are new faces to us.
They are joining our church,
and we're so excited to have them become part of this fellowship.
They both have experienced a transforming relationship with Jesus Christ.
I've been able to talk with both of them,
and I am just completely solid
that they are following Christ
and this expression is they're saying
yes to all of you. You're our church
family and Jesus is
the way, the truth, and the
life. You can celebrate with
that. Amen.
I'm going to baptize my sister first.
Dawn, it's been a pleasure to share
with you and we've been able to talk about
this and I know it's a very exciting day
for you. For it symbolizes
your commitment to be one of Jesus'
followers. There's nothing I can do to
talk you out of this, I can tell.
Is that right? I mean, you
are solid for Jesus.
You've given him your life, and he's given you
his spirit. And so you're
now one of his. And to be baptized
with your husband today is a powerful symbol
of you together
being a godly Christian family going
forward from here. All the
things of the past are done.
It's all new in Jesus Christ. Amen?
Amen. Based
on your profession of faith, it is my
privilege to baptize you as my Christian
sister, in the name of the Father
and the Son and the Holy Spirit.
Now here's husband
Josh, with that same testimony.
Josh came to Christ a couple years ago
and has decided that now he's going to
be part of this family, and it's a privilege
to be baptized with his wife. We've
shared about that. And I know
that Jesus is in your life,
and that you want to be fully on fire
for him from now and forevermore.
Is that right? Absolutely.
That is strength.
I appreciate your character and your decision to follow him.
I can't talk you out.
This is for real.
This is it.
He is your Lord forever.
And all the old is gone.
All the new has come.
Based on your profession of faith,
it is my privilege, Josh, to baptize you
in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit.
Let's pray for them.
Lord, we welcome them into our family.
And we pray that we would come alongside
and encourage and nourish their souls
as they desire to honor and love you.
Now use them in ministry.
Use their gifts.
May this be a wonderful family experience.
And thank you for the privilege
of walking through the waters of baptism together.
Now bless them, protect them, and lead them,
we pray in Jesus' name.
Amen.
Let's stand up together.
I lift your name on high.
I'm so glad you came to save us.
To lift your name on high.
You may be seated.
I'm excited to be able to have two of our students from our youth ministry
come and share what God's been doing in their life.
So, Melika and Michael, would you guys come up
and encourage us with what God's been doing in your life.
Hi, and good afternoon, or good evening.
My name is Melika Consultado,
And I've been in the ministry since seventh grade.
And I just want to tell you a little about my background.
And I grew up in a Catholic family, Filipino, not 100% Catholic.
We went to church every Sunday.
We had rosary every evening at 6 o'clock.
But I was never satisfied because I knew that I was hungry for something.
And in seventh grade, I had an answered prayer.
and one of my friends that's now moved, Jessica Holly,
she brought me to my first youth group.
And I was very stereotypical of what a youth group was.
I thought we go to a pew, we read prayers,
there's a guy in holy clothes telling us what to do.
And our first night here, we played teddy bear soccer.
and this this was a stepping stone for changing my idea of my walk with God and I knew that I
was hungry to have an intimate relationship with him and I just want to say that the youth ministry
as we now called it has changed my life it used to be a youth group of a clique of people coming
to socialize and now it's grown into an amazing ministry we have we have amazing groups we have
a prayer group we have a service group we have people who tutor us and we have loving leaders
who guide us in our walk with God and we went up to camp we just and we just came back from camp
a few weeks ago and God has just been amazing and he has brought me an amazing and powerful
youth group a youth a small group and it consists of five girls and a leader and it has just kept
me accountable and steadfast on my walk with God. And it's just amazing. It's an amazing feeling.
And all my friends always ask me why I'm so happy. And I tell them I'm not happy. I'm joyful. Because
joyful is something that God gives me and it makes me complete. So I just want to thank all the
resources that we have here. I don't have this at home. I don't have computers. I don't have
the beautiful stuff you give us down on the lounge. And I'm just thankful of what God has
provided in our youth ministry and what you have given from your hearts to our youth ministry.
And I thank all of you. Hi, I'm Michael Barker. I've been going to this church since about fourth
grade. I first started coming with Iris Dowell, my lady right there. I love that lady. But yeah,
I've been a Christian basically my whole life and raised up in this church. And I just,
now I'm a senior in high school and totally God has just moved in my life
I'm leading worship for the high school group my life is just turned around
totally just you know it went from me not really caring about God to me trying
to listen for what God's trying to tell me all the time and I've seen this youth
group it went from basically about five people to like 40 50 people like every
Wednesday night the resources at this church are just totally awesome we have
have awesome leaders, awesome people. People are here because they want to be here. They're not
here because, you know, let's go socialize. Let's go, it's fun to go bowling, you know. People are
here because they really, they care about God. They want to learn about God, and they want to
spread the news, and they're just bringing, we're bringing people in left and right. Every single
week, we have new people coming in every single week, and it's just a blessing to see all these
lives being transformed every single week. Just new people all the time, and it's just a blessing
to be at this church
and to be involved in this church,
not just the youth group,
but just to be involved in this church.
It's just a really, I love it.
I can't, I would never go to a different church.
This is awesome.
So, yeah.
Let's stand up and sing this together.
Come Thou Fount of Every Blessing
To my heart to sing Thy grace
Streams of mercy never ceasing
Call for songs of loudest praise
Teach me some of his songs of love
Praise his name, I'm fixed upon it
Name of God's redeeming love
To thy display I know
Safely from Jesus on a stray
Bought me with his precious blood
To grace how great a debtor
Let thy goodness like a fetter
Bind my wandering heart to thee
Prone to what I've been taken, sealed
This theme of God's goodness.
I'd like you to hear from one more gentleman
that God has been doing some great things in his life.
I've asked Bobby Esperos to come.
Would you share?
Thank you.
I don't know if you all know me,
but my wife Gloria, my beautiful daughter,
Trinica, Dominica
and my son
Damien goes to
the University of
Missoula, Montana
sorry, I know for sure
he's smarter than I am
but there's a lot of things happening in my life
life changing
ever so life changing
the love
of this church, support of everybody
here, I thank you all
just recently
I was in a car accident
and understanding I was looking for this particular car for over a couple of
years now this car in my opinion as far as my dream car was very rare to me
it was only 48 made in that year in that color so every time I got in it it
reminded me of being 16 years old and driving for the very first time sitting
on the freeway I got rear-ended I got rear-ended hard enough that you can
imagine this the little cassette in the deck actually broke in half car actually
lifted up I lost the block of time I'm not sure how much lapsed but getting out
of the car out of reaction I went to the back of the car and was talking to the
van that hit me which then was another car behind him just saying what are you
thinking of standing in between the fast lane and the diamond lane it just took
two cars ago zipping past me and I'm thinking I'm I shouldn't be standing out
here so I got back in the car we all moved over started to exchange
information the gentleman that was behind me owned his own business he was
a serviceman of some kind of appliances and he ran his own business and looking
at his registration power tell was on his personalized license plate with the
as a cross he introduced himself he was very friendly he was very nice and again
he was on you know expressing his opinion that it's unfortunate we all had
to meet this way but it happened the person that caused the accident he was
back talking to the officer and I didn't even get a chance to meet him at that
point I literally had to sit down and gather my thoughts he later came up
wearing medical uniform I think he might have been a male nurse I'm not too sure
so apologetic so sorry about what it had and I kept my head down I didn't know
what to say I I just felt like this is all gonna be a hassle the insurance
company the whole shot I just said what were you thinking of and what were you
doing just before it happened what you're on the freeway you should be
driving, you should be paying attention. He told me he was picking up a Bible. My heart
went out to him. I think God put me in this position of testing me as far as forgiveness
was concerned. I looked at him and I says, don't worry about it. That's part of the reason
why I think we have insurance, but I think everything will be okay. He literally stood
there and cried. A total stranger in front of me just cried. I wanted to hug him, but
as I told my wife, I didn't want to stand on the freeway with two guys 7 o'clock in the morning
hugging each other, and that probably would have looked kind of funny, but
his mother showed up, and again, he cried.
He really was sorry. Again, it's a test of
forgiveness. Whoever you come across, and I've always been told
this, that may be an angel you're meeting for the very first time.
Treat everyone well. Treat everyone good, because we're going to be
judgment. Again, I thank you for this time and this moment. Psalm 34, 8 says, boldly taste and see
that the Lord is good. Oh, the joys of those who trust in Him. This homecoming Sunday is a time for
celebration, reflection, reconnection, and then forward direction. And I think it's fair to say
that God has truly been at work
in Fullerton First Baptist Church
for 110 years.
When I hear testimonies
of our students,
when I hear testimonies
of 48 cars wrecked
and you can still forgive,
we know that God is working.
As I've gotten to know stories
from different ones of you,
I know that the Lord
is powerfully at work
in your lives.
And that brings me joy.
That excites me.
That motivates me
to keep on preaching and sharing
because the Lord is definitely at work in our midst.
He continues to be at work this present day,
110 years in this church, and He's still going,
and it's still all about life change.
Life change.
All the time amongst our people,
I find people finding hope for their lives.
I see hope for marriages.
I see hope for families.
We find people that are now experiencing inner healing,
physical healing and deliverance, people finding joy in the midst of sorrow, families in the midst
of loneliness, a future in the midst of the present. People here are finding a life calling,
a life purpose, direction, and others are finding friendship, camaraderie amongst God's people,
accountability as they yearn to be holy as God himself is holy. God has been at work
at Fullerton First for 110 years. Taste and see that the Lord is good. I hear that verse and I
think about that and reflect and meditate and I see two things out of that. I see it as a call
to experience god taste taste doesn't mean just read about taste means to experience to take in
to drink him in to experience the community of god's people to actively get into scripture and
allow him to penetrate your life it's about going to prayer and talking with him and having him
respond in answered prayer. Those are experiences that are
dynamic. It's tasting and seeing that the Lord is good.
That's tasting. And I think seeing also is
actively noticing what God is doing around us.
It's seeing the evidence of Jesus and the Holy Spirit in your friends.
Noticing what God is doing in our congregation.
When you hear testimonies, you see what God
is up to. When you see baptisms, you see God at work in the lives of people. Every time I go to
camp, as you know, I just get so excited. I'm really thrilled to spend time with our young
people and see what God does in their lives and makes them witnesses on our campuses in this
community. Statistically, more people come to Christ before the age of 18 than any other time
in their life. And so to have a vibrant youth ministry
going out into these campuses and seeing God work amongst them
thrills my soul. And I'm proud of you. Very
proud of you. It's a privilege to empower you for ministry. And I know I speak for
Brian and Ozzie and the other leaders that we just stand behind you
and completely support what God is doing. We see
God in your midst. And we're proud of you. When I talk with some of our
seniors. You have many
years to reflect
on God's goodness in your life.
And some of you have shared you have aches
and pains, but you still have joy in your
hearts. You still know
that Jesus is on the throne.
And sometimes I go to minister to you
and I walk away
blessed. Because you still
empower me. Go to
it, Pastor. Keep up the good work.
Keep reaching souls for Christ
and you bless me. And I can
see that God is definitely at work
in your midst. Taste and see
that the Lord is good.
Some of you this evening are coming
with joy overflowing.
You have expressed such
great love for God and the things
that you sense He's doing. Your heart is just
overflowing with gratitude.
And praise God for that.
But others of you come tonight
and your hearts are full of heaviness
for real life has
hit you upside the head and things are
difficult. And your heart
is breaking. But you know, both those experiences, joy and excitement and broken hearts, are found in
Scripture. And in the midst of those experiences, whether on the mountaintop or the valley, you can
still discover, when you taste and see, you will still find that He is good. Abraham, childless, yet with a
Dreamed from God, he knew the Lord was good.
Joseph, in jail, trumped up on charges not real,
discovered still the Lord was good.
Deborah, the judge, drew upon God's wisdom
and knew the Lord was good
in the midst of a very spiritually depressing time.
Elijah, with the fire and the prophets on Mount Carmel,
he knew that the Lord was God and was good.
David, in the midst of sin and rebellion and weeping and gnashing of his own teeth,
he still found the Lord to be good.
As we saw today, doubting Thomas found out the Lord was still good.
Saul, who became Paul, found forgiveness.
A man that persecuted the church, that killed the Christians,
discovered forgiveness and a lifelong ministry,
he knew that the Lord was good.
I think of John, a man who saw the culmination of the age,
knew in the midst of all of that, the Lord was good.
Very different experiences in Scripture,
all tasting and seeing in the midst of great joy or great calamity,
still knowing, still trusting, still resting in the arms of the Lord
and knowing that He is good.
How about you?
Can you see the goodness of God in your life?
How is He working in you?
It's a good question because if you take it seriously,
you have to express that somewhere.
I hope it's an internal dialogue.
I hope you'll tell somebody and become the body of Christ
as we share what God is doing in our individual lives.
What's He doing in you and your family, in your job or your career?
How is He leading you?
How is He stretching you?
How is He maturing and molding
and growing you up into the maturity
the Bible promises in Jesus Christ?
How has He been good to you?
If you've been away from the church
or the Lord for a while,
my encouragement is this.
Will you commit to experience and test
and see that the Lord is good?
I hope you will.
If you've been blessed by the Lord,
will you commit to sharing with others
the blessings of the Lord.
Not just keep it inside,
but encourage somebody else
and point to the Lord and say,
taste and see, for He is good.
My hope is that this fall,
as we embark on a journey
of exploration and growth
in this area of worship,
it is my prayer that we will learn
to experience God's goodness in new ways
and give Him glory and praise
with even more depth and more meaning
and that we truly in new ways
taste and see how good He is.
It's going to be a stretching time for us
and I trust that we're going to see
His goodness in new ways,
unpredictable ways,
ways that even us as leaders
have no idea about.
But that's the nature of our God.
He's not predictable,
but He's good.
He is good all the time.
Amen.
The Lord bless you this fall
as you taste and see of God's goodness.
Let's sing, draw me close to you.
Close to you.
I'm your friend.
If nothing else can take your place.
To feel the warmth of your embrace.
Help me find a way
Bring me back to you
Sometimes in the midst of life, life crowds us.
And in some ways it feels like it squeezes all of God's goodness right out of us.
Like oranges, we feel pressed and squeezed.
But the Lord, when He gave us this meal of remembrance,
he knew that life on earth would be difficult it was difficult for him he endured all forms of
temptation and backstabbing and rejection and all kinds of pain even pain on the cross
and he instituted this meal to remind us again of the goodness of god and he desired that we
take it regularly to remind us again in the midst of the busyness and the chaos of life
that he loves you that he died for you to remove your sin as far as the bible says the east is from
the west that's about as far as you can get one song on the radio today says your sins are now
on the bottom of the ocean another great word picture for the same reality jesus took away our
sin it's nailed to a cross and because of that we can express our desire for forgiveness we express
our sorrow the bible says that he is faithful and just and will forgive us that's the greatest news
there is that god of the universe pure and holy forgives us and we can start over each day
and we need to be reminded of that and so the lord instituted that we would gather regularly
and experience the table,
the symbols of His giving His life for us.
And so we have reserved this special evening
to come again and to take the bread.
As we talked about tasting and seeing the Lord is good,
tonight you will taste bread,
taste juice,
symbols of body and blood shed for you.
And you will literally take them in,
symbolizing your,
I want more of Jesus in my life.
He is the bread of life, our very sustainer.
We live by His words and by who He is.
In a few moments, the band is going to play quietly.
And we're going to do this differently tonight.
As you are ready, you are free to come
and come to the table at either side
and take the bread and take the cup
and just meditate as you are ready to say,
Lord, thank You for Your goodness to me.
These symbols of your shed body and blood
that I might have life.
And so it's a contemplative time
as you come and taste and see the Lord is good.
For those who are not able to come
as the time comes together here,
will you just extend your arm
and I will come and bring those to you.
But if you're able,
I would encourage you to come when you're ready.
We'll be singing and reflecting.
You take the meal,
take the bread,
and take the cup.
as symbols of God's love
and his sacrifice for you.
He loves you so very much.
You're worth a son.
That's how much he loves you.
That's how good he is
that he would die for you.
Taste and see tonight
that the Lord is good.
And come as you are ready
to the tables here at Yon.
