As we move into the Thanksgiving season, I have much to be thankful for. The soccer season is over.
We had so much fun, and as I shared, what is it, ten weeks ago, I took on two teams this past season, both sons, and we had a lot of fun.
It was great to be out there yesterday at the final game in November wearing shorts.
It doesn't get much better than that in Southern California. It was just gorgeous.
so now we're one pizza party down, one pizza party to go
you know how that goes, and I'll tell you it was emotional
I mean these little kids saying thanks to Coach Kirk and hugging me
and saying goodbye and suddenly it was like I'm happy this is over
because I'm ready to have my Saturdays back
but I'm also, God you get bonded to these kids and their parents
and so I'm kind of all torn up inside and already parents are asking
and you're going to coach again next year?
And I'm just trying to get through, you know, next weekend.
But it was really a delight.
And for the second team, the little older kids,
I'm going to be inviting them to our kids' play.
And so it's like we can roll right from soccer right into basketball,
and I'll be coaching there, so we can just keep this thing going.
And I've also got some families coming to our Grinch program,
and I'm excited about that.
So it's fun to have opportunities to bring the community into,
and I encourage you to take those opportunities as well
because they're really fun and a great opportunity.
Well, as we move into our Thanksgiving season,
I want to share a couple messages about God's grace
and our response and our attitude about Thanksgiving and about gratitude.
And I'd like to begin by sharing a story that comes out of Connecticut.
A gentleman and his wife told that they did a garage sale.
I've never actually done one of these, but I've been to a few,
and I can appreciate how things go.
And they decided to put a mirror out that they had received as a wedding gift.
I hope nobody from the wedding came by.
That's always dangerous.
But apparently nobody did from the wedding.
But they put this mirror out at the garage sale because it didn't fit with the decor of the house.
It had this gaudy aqua-colored frame, and it didn't fit any room, and they couldn't find a place to put it.
And so out it goes by the curb, if you know what I mean, and it was purchased for a dollar.
And the man that bought it, as he's giving the dollar to this couple and says,
what a great deal this is.
You see, it still has the plastic on it.
As he began to take the aqua-colored plastic film off the gold frame.
But the transaction had already happened.
And he went away with a real bargain.
You know, one person's junk is somebody else's treasure.
And in this case, the man got a real treasure.
And I say that to say this, that God sees you as treasure.
Do you believe that?
God sees you, each one of you, as very special treasure today and every day.
No matter where you have been, no matter what you have said, no matter what you have done,
God sees you as wonderful treasure.
How can I say that?
Is that just coming from my wisdom, or is that coming from a different source?
It comes from the Scriptures, and I want us this morning to unpack a wonderful drama
that unfolds between Jesus and a special woman.
And I'm going to read it, and I invite you to just read along in your mind
and enter this text from Luke chapter 7, starting in verse 36.
Now one of the Pharisees invited Jesus to have dinner with him.
So he went to the Pharisee's house and reclined at the table
when a woman who had lived a sinful life in that town
and learned that Jesus was eating at the Pharisee's house,
she brought an alabaster jar of perfume.
And as she stood behind him, at his feet, weeping,
she began to wet his feet with her tears.
And she wiped them with her hair, and kissed them, and poured perfume on them.
When the Pharisee who had invited him saw this, he said to himself,
If this man were a prophet, he would know who is touching him
and what kind of woman she is, that she's a sinner.
Jesus answered him, Simon, I have something to tell you.
Tell me, teacher, he said.
Two men owed money to a certain money lender,
and one owed him 500 denarii and the other 50.
Neither of them had the money to pay him back, so he canceled the debts of both.
Now, which of them will love him more?
Simon replied, I suppose the one who had the bigger debt, canceled.
You have judged correctly, Jesus said.
Then he turned toward the woman and said to Simon,
Do you see this woman?
I came into your house.
You did not give me any water for my feet,
but she wet my feet with her tears and wiped them with her hair.
You did not give me a kiss,
But this woman, from the time I entered, has not stopped kissing my feet.
You did not put oil on my head, but she has poured perfume on my feet.
Therefore I tell you, her many sins have been forgiven, for she loved much.
But he who has been forgiven little, loves little.
And Jesus said to her, Your sins are forgiven.
The other guests began to say amongst themselves, who is this who even forgives sins?
Jesus said to the woman, your faith has saved you.
Go in peace.
I'd like for us this morning to really open up our imaginations today.
I'd like for us to enter this story not as 21st century members of a beautiful church
in Southern California on beautiful pews, all comfortable.
I want us to immerse ourselves in our minds and hearts today
into this Middle Eastern home.
And I want us to feel the dirt on our feet.
And I want us to smell the aromas of this meal,
of these people, and of this perfume.
And I want us to let ourselves be so immersed
that God speaks to our heads and our heart this morning.
Simon, a Pharisee.
a religious leader of the day has invited jesus to come to his home for a meal but it's not like
any other house it's the home of a wealthy powerful man in the green mountain land of galilee
jesus the well-known teacher is reclining at the wealthy man's table you see jesus was on one of
those couches that surround the table which held a beautiful
luscious meal prepared in Jesus' honor.
And the other guests, well they're reclining around the table
as well. Probably some other teachers of the law.
Perhaps some other well-educated guests are
curiously seeking an audience with Jesus. And they're
reclining around this well-mannered, well-prepared, formal
banquet meal and you can just smell the the rich spices hanging in the air heavy and the oil lamps
are casting their sparkles around the room it is a perfect respectable classy kind of affair
and then she shows up what a way to ruin a meal an immoral woman probably a prostitute
comes to dinner.
You see, in that day and age,
religious people often opened their homes for the poor.
And at banquets where uninvited guests could enter,
they were to remain quiet around the outside of the meal gathering.
They could listen in on the conversation,
on the discussions that were happening,
but they weren't supposed to enter all the way.
And she shows up.
She's not the kind of woman you'd ordinarily invite to a nice party.
She's a streetwalker.
She's a prostitute.
She's a pavement princess.
We're tracking here.
In our society, she's wearing a short skirt and high heels and fishnet hose and a low-cut blouse.
That's our context.
But in their context, she's dressed pretty much like everybody else,
except that she's wearing perfume.
Some have said that prostitutes in the day wore a vial of perfume around the neck.
And let's be honest, in a culture where bathing was infrequent,
a pleasant fragrance would have been great stock in trade.
She shows up to dinner.
And not only does she show up, but she steals the show.
Standing behind Jesus, down by his feet,
the loose lady begins to cry her face tightens her eyes clothe her breathing begins to deepen
and moisture begins to form around her eyes slowly tears crawl down her cheeks she weeps
softly at first then with deeper gasps she lets out her anguish in racking sobs tears begin to
fall like rain onto the feet of the honored guest her salty teardrops splash on the feet of god
most high and you can hear and feel the collective gasp in the room this this can't be happening
this is like a bad dream the party is ruined a disreputable woman is making a scene at this
dignified gathering how dare she do this what is she doing here and you can see that question just
piercing the minds of each guest as they recline at the table doesn't she know who he is oh but
she does she knew that jesus was going to be there word still travels fast in a culture
with no television or radio, word goes from home to home
that the rabbi, the great one, was going to be in town.
Her sources told her where he would be.
Did she come to cry?
I don't think that was on her mind.
Did she come to offer a gift?
Perhaps.
But when she came to within inches of Jesus,
something broke inside of her.
something broke deep down inside of her soul
the well at the bottom of her soul
the place that houses all of her fears
and her shame and her pain and her sorrow
somehow broke open and flooded her body with repentance
and with regret
and her shame burst forth from the deep
and flood her eyes and cast rain onto the feet of God.
She can't help it.
She can't help it.
Being this close to Jesus is just too much.
There's something about being this close to Jesus
that simply overwhelms her.
Something about Jesus reaches deep inside of her soul
and suddenly she sees how empty her life really is.
She realizes that she's created for something so much more than her lifestyle currently allows.
She's painfully aware of the hollow and the shallow and the self-centered life that she leads.
And her remorse, it erupts into a shower of regret and of cleansing.
And as those tears flow uncontrollably from her eyes and they splash on Jesus' feet,
You can see her embarrassed, you can see her searching for a towel, maybe a napkin,
but they're too pretty to disturb, it's a formal meal.
So she takes the locks of her hair and begins to dry the master's feet
and mortify that she's allowed her tears to fall on Jesus.
The more she wipes with her hair, the more tears fall,
and she desperately begins to lap them up with her own tongue.
And as she is lapping up the tears, the kisses, it all comes more and more.
And there's an emotion that begins to come up.
Fear and frustration and shame and guilt.
But then love.
But then love.
Kissing the feet of the forgiver of her sin.
At this meal, every taboo has been broken.
An immoral woman, an uninvited guest.
A woman showing her hair in public, that was a disgrace.
It was the sign of a promiscuous woman that she would do that.
Wiping her repugnant hair on the feet of the esteemed rabbi.
It's just too much.
And it gets worse.
Because not only is this seen unsightly, but now a new aroma dominates the room.
Perfume.
Perfume poured from the alabaster jar.
Perfume, a tool of the trade, is now made holy as it's poured on the feet of Jesus.
Possibly cheap cologne from a cheap little piece of pottery.
But you can't know the cost of the oil in that alabaster jar.
Simon could not understand the cost.
Simon could not understand what was happening.
And you can see Simon.
The esteemed religious leader in all of his perfunctory glory and clothing that says he's important.
And he's sitting there and you could hear his mind turning, gotcha.
Jesus, I've gotcha.
Wait till the other Pharisees hear about this one.
You claim to be a prophet, and you can't even tell what kind of woman is touching your feet.
You don't know that the perfume is part of her loathsome occupation.
I've got you now, Jesus.
You are nailed.
And that self-righteous attitude is just effusing out of him.
And it's ugly, isn't it?
That attitude of incredible judgment is so ugly, if you'll stretch with me, it's like an aqua-colored film over our eyes that doesn't allow us to see.
We don't see through the film of the value of somebody else's soul.
Self-righteousness like Simon's is the type that scorns tears.
It's the type of self-righteousness that laughs at repentance.
it mocks mercy his attitude is like the attitude of that schoolyard bully that
just knows that he's better than you and he's got every intention of always reminding you
that he's better than you are and simon's sitting there with all this self-righteousness and
twisted mind is just reveling in this turn of fortune it couldn't get any better than this
i think that simon i think he was snubbing jesus by not even welcoming him properly and now this
woman is touching him oh he's got him now he's got him and jesus jesus breaks through the tension
of the moment jesus breaks through without even a word spoken to him says simon i have something
to tell you and friends when i hear that out of the scriptures when i hear that jesus speaks
we better listen e.f hutton's got nothing on jesus and they turn their ears tell me teacher
and then jesus tells this story i've got it in a different translation the message for us to
understand jesus simply says two men were in debt to a banker one owed 500 silver pieces the other
50 neither of them could pay up so the banker canceled both debts which of the two would be
more grateful that's the story in essence Simon figures it out of course the one who owes much
and is forgiven much is more grateful and Jesus pierces right through Simon's deceit
truth now sheds its light and the darkness begins to withdraw ever since this woman has arrived
She has not stopped kissing Jesus' feet and anointing his feet with perfume.
And Simon, Simon didn't go through the common greeting ritual.
No kiss, no oil.
In our day and age, no handshake, no pat on the back, no good to see you,
no hanging up the coat in the closet.
I do think that Simon's gesture or lack thereof was a snub in some ways.
Perhaps the whole meal was an opportunity to catch Jesus saying something
or doing something to be used against him?
And oh, it's perfect now.
Oh, have we got stuff for the tabloids now?
Oh, have we got something?
Jesus, the prophet, doesn't know who's touching him?
This is scandalous.
It's perfect.
It's interesting to me, though, these two men,
both are pursuing God.
Jesus and Simon, the Pharisee, both pursuing God,
had two different ways of looking at the world, didn't they?
Simon sees the woman and sees a sinner.
Jesus sees this woman and sees a penitent woman.
A penitent is somebody whose soul hates their sin and is now moving in a different direction.
Simon thought he's a long way into the kingdom of God.
Simon is so much better than this blubbering woman, this immoral, distasteful woman.
Simon is so much further along in his own mind in the kingdom of God.
Simon sees a sinful woman.
But Jesus saw a woman full of possibility for redemption and recovery.
She reaches out to him in crying and in perfume.
And Jesus, in a sense, took her little hand
and placed it in a steady grasp of help and healing.
Simon doesn't know the cost of the oil.
And Jesus says to her,
Your sins, your sins are forgiven.
When Jesus looked on this woman,
he didn't see her as she was.
He saw her as she could be.
When Jesus looks on you and I,
He doesn't see us as our conflicted, sinful people that we are.
He sees us as a son or a daughter of the King.
And whether you have much today for which you need to repent and start over,
or whether it's just our everyday run-of-the-mill Christian selfishness,
we all need a Savior.
And it's easy for us to say things like,
well, oh yes, Lord, I know I'm a sinner, but I'm not a sinner like that sinner.
I mean, I know I've got my problems, but I'm not like, you know, over there.
Well, sure, God, I fail every now and then, but that person now,
that's where you should focus your attention, Lord.
Yeah, well, we all make mistakes, but my mistakes aren't like that person.
I just want to share a deep spiritual principle with us this morning,
that God makes no division with sin.
We all need a Savior.
Yes, some sin has deeper ramifications
in terms of how it hurts other people or ourselves,
but in God's eyes, sin is a violation of His holiness.
We all need a Savior.
And to Jesus, sin has always been
an ugly, aqua-colored film
that hides true beauty underneath and it's a film that needs to be stripped away that the gold
underneath might be revealed because god can see through the film god created each of you special
and wonderful and our sin blocks and covers us but what jesus sees is us cleansed and washed
with a new heart that beats at the frequency of God's heart and that's good news that is the
good news if you've never accepted Jesus as the leader and the forgiver of your life that my
friends is the essence of the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ of the good news it's the
entire message summed up in a few sentences but that reality is so powerful it will change your
life forever. A lot of us, though, have grown up in the church.
And it's harder for us to imagine
and to feel and understand the magnitude
of what has been done for us on the cross. It's hard
for us to understand what Jesus is daily doing
through the Spirit in our lives. And we've grown up sometimes
in the church. If you came to Christ in the innocence of a young age
or possibly came to follow Jesus decades ago
and you've never really struggled with your faith,
you've never dabbled in other things,
you've never slid backwards,
it's harder sometimes to appreciate the magnitude
of what Jesus has done on the cross for us.
It's harder sometimes to appreciate afresh
the marvelous work of Jesus
when that initial work of forgiveness was so long ago.
But it's not impossible.
And I think it's important for us to remember what that was like.
It's important for us to step back and to feel and experience afresh what it meant for Jesus
to lift the film off of our lives, to cleanse us, to make us whole.
And as we remember, we're empowered again.
In the remembering is a fresh empowering to love others and to love much.
to realize how much our debt was canceled
and for us now to see others as potentials
that God too will forgive and cleanse their lives as well.
In our remembering, we're empowered to give mercy and grace to other people.
In our remembering, we're empowered to live a life of gratitude and thanksgiving.
To live a life of gratitude and thanksgiving.
with much mercy comes much love.
And as we experience again afresh what God has done for us,
we are freed up to love others with no boundaries.
Do you know the cost of the perfume in the alabaster jar?
Do you know what God had to do to give you freedom from sin?
And how do you choose to respond?
Do you know the cost of the oil?
Do you know the cost of worship?
the cost of praise of confession of sin of genuine heart broken repentance as we wrap this up i just
invite you this morning to examine the attitude of your heart this morning can you understand
in your head can you understand and feel experience in your heart the great grace that
god has poured over your life can you feel again the burden that was lifted and god's love as he
just pours it over you like oil on your head can you see that god sees you as washed and clean as
a daughter or a son and how will you respond how will you respond psalm 35 28 gives us a hint
and i will tell everyone of your justice and your goodness and i will praise you all the day long
because of your goodness and your justice,
I will praise you all the day long.
I will love others.
I will forgive others.
I will praise you all the day long.
Is that where you are today?
Is that where you are?
As we conclude this time,
I want us to take a few moments
and just quietly where you are,
you might just close your eyes and just reflect,
but I'd like for us to take a few moments
of silent prayer and meditation
as we reflect on the grace of Jesus Christ
and thank God for his grace and mercy in our lives.
And this morning, if you have never given Jesus your life,
you've never made him your leader and your forgiver,
but you're somehow touched by the reality of this story
and how that can be your story as well,
I would invite you to pray something like this.
dear God thank you that you poured out so much love on that woman and I thank you that you can
pour out that kind of love on me and I'm sorry for the things I've done things I've said places
I've been that were not good but I thank you that you give me a new life and I do accept what you
did on the cross for me that you died as the one sacrifice to take away my sin forever and that you
now see me, not through that ugly film, but Lord, I'm clean and bright, and I can shine, and I can
shine for you. That's what I want to do. So I give you my life, and I receive your forgiveness,
and like that woman, I will do my best to sin no more. For the rest of us, I would just invite us
to just take a few moments and meditate on God's grace and his goodness, and in a few moments,
we'll sing together.
