This is your first time, or second time. We're really glad that you've chosen to be here, and I'm Pastor Kirk, and it's a joy to share with you.
And if you are one of our veteran members or regular attenders, it's good to have you back.
We are now in the third installment of a series as we study and go through a book this fall.
We're studying The Case for Faith, which is Lee Strobel's book that helps us talk intelligently about who God is and about why we believe the things we believe.
As we are answering questions of our children, of our grandchildren, of our colleagues, friends at work, in the office, you name it.
These tough questions that we're answering this fall are the ones you're most likely to encounter as we share the good news of Jesus Christ.
And so this morning we talk about this big challenging issue of the creation versus the concept of evolution.
Now I'm going to try and tackle all of that in about 25 minutes.
So y'all pray for me this morning because that's a big challenge today.
I also want to say this is probably the most lecture-style message I've given in quite a while.
So put your thinking caps on, take some notes, get a copy of the tape if some of this goes beyond you,
because there's a lot of scientific stuff, a lot of biblical stuff.
I want to cram a lot in here, because I want you to be armed as we share the truth with people.
I'd like to begin this morning by just sharing what Time Magazine wrote in December of the 99 issue.
It says up here on the screen, Charles Darwin didn't want to murder God, as he once put it, but he did.
That's Time Magazine's interpretation.
Michael Denton, a molecular biologist, has a different approach to this, and he writes this.
Evolutionary theory is still, as it was in Darwin's time, a highly speculative hypothesis,
entirely without direct factual support, and very far from that self-evident axiom some of its more
aggressive advocates would have us believe. Two different worldviews again. Two different
intellectual positions at war over this issue that has such importance to who we are and to
our faith and to whether there is a God and is he there for us to worship. I'm going to approach
this topic this morning really from two angles. The scientific discussion is the first part,
And then I'm going to move into the biblical discussion and the second part.
Now, both of these issues are nowhere going to be treated exhaustively.
There's no way I can pour through the volumes and volumes to wrestle adequately,
but I'm hoping that I will pique your interest and give you places to start investigating on your own.
But I think by the end of this message, you will have some tools in your belt, so to speak,
that you can share with somebody else and be intelligent as you talk about these issues.
And so that's where we're going.
First of all this morning, then, the scientific discussion.
The Bible says in its opening statements, Genesis 1-1, it says,
In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth.
God created.
For God to create, there's an assumption that there is a God to create.
On the flip side, the counter position to that comes from Dr. William Provine of Cornell University.
who in a number of his different writings and stuff,
he boils down the five conclusions
according to Darwin's theory,
and his conclusions are as follows.
Number one, there's no evidence for God.
There's no life after death.
There's no absolute foundation for right and wrong.
There's no ultimate meaning for life.
And people don't really have free will.
Huge conclusions.
Huge issues for us as a people to wrestle with.
Now, in popular culture, if you just kind of ask the man or the woman on the street today,
the evolutionary argument, for the most part, is considered basically a done deal.
If you went over to Starbucks and just kind of asked some people at random what they thought about evolution,
the dominant thinking in contemporary culture is, it's straight up, been settled, it's over, we've done that, we're on to new things.
There's no more need for discussion.
Richard Dawkins, the famous atheist and biologist, wrote this.
He said, Darwin made it possible to be an intellectually fulfilled atheist.
I'm going to show you a scene from a film that came out in the early part of last century
from Fantasia, from Disney Studios, one of their first great works of animation.
And from that film, they summarize the evolutionary argument very well.
take a look at Fantasia. How many times have your children, how many times have you seen that
whole argument laid out simply like that? Open and shut case. It's obvious. It's in film. It's
in literature. It's on television. It's everywhere. Darwin wins the day. God is out. But I'm going to
counter this morning with this. Is it really that simple? Is that depiction really how it happens?
And are we to base our entire life on that set of values that comes underneath that?
Because the values are, there's no need for God, there's no life after death,
there's no foundation for right and wrong.
Are we surprised today that we live amoral lives
if ultimately you are simply a monkey's uncle or came out of the slime?
There really is no foundation for right or wrong.
There's no ultimate meaning for life, and people don't have any free will.
There's no real choice.
I'm going to counter by saying, friends, that in the past 30 years,
There is more scientific data that's come down the pipe
to challenge Darwin's hypothesis
than ever before imagined would come about.
Michael Behe, biochemist from Lehigh University, says this.
The conclusion of intelligent design flows naturally, he says,
from the data itself,
not from sacred books or sectarian beliefs.
The reluctance of science to embrace the conclusion of intelligent design
has no justifiable foundation.
Many people, including many important and well-respected scientists,
just don't want there to be anything beyond nature.
And that's a huge issue.
What he's saying is that the data is pointing somewhere
where many people's worldview doesn't want to allow it to go.
And perhaps many people are holding on to the data that isn't there
or just bits and pieces because of their worldview
doesn't want the conclusion to go where the data is pointing.
Now let me say this.
It is not a disputed point that evolution is true to some extent.
Just by observing the animal and the plant kingdom around you,
it demonstrates that within nature there are variations within a species.
The bottom line is we can breed animals to do different things.
We can make cows give more milk.
We can make subtle changes through the breeding process that allow us to accomplish more with certain animals.
We know that diseases mutate and change.
The mere fact that there's a whole drug industry that comes up with new antibiotics every now and then
is because the little germ buggers mutate.
And I'm susceptible again to that.
I mean, I live out that reality.
I fight them down, they mutate and change, they come back to get me.
We play this battle all day long.
That's because at some micro level, evolution is true.
There are changes within the species.
We can even test this in a test tube or in a petri dish in a laboratory.
You can get little insects, fruit flies and things like that,
and get multiple generations to grow very quickly and notice variations.
We don't dispute that micro, if you will, the small version of evolution is true.
The challenge and the question is, what about what we call macroevolution?
What about the notion, like we just saw up here on the screen,
that through mutations and natural selection,
that is the argument of survival of the fittest,
that animals morph and change into other animals?
Like you saw, the little amoeba moves into a fish that sprouts legs
that begins to crawl up on the beach.
The morphing and changing from one species into another.
What about that?
If you follow the argument, we move from the fish to the land animals,
ultimately to the monkeys, and ultimately to ourselves.
July 23, 2001.
How apes became human.
It's a hot issue.
Every few months or years, a major news magazine will come up with a new issue, a new study.
and when you read it, it's not quite so, the case is not so well closed,
but the way the front article is read, it's an open and shut case.
If you read this in the grocery store line without reading the article, it's a done deal.
The problem is, friends, when you get into the literature, when you really begin to study this,
when you get beyond just the textbooks that come out in the classrooms of the high school students
and the college students, which, by the way, are pulling on data that's usually 20 to 30 years old,
the contemporary thinking is a lot different.
In fact, they're showing now the fossil record doesn't show the process of animals changing into other animals.
In fact, the evidence shows a completely different picture.
Philip Johnson, who is a professor of law at Berkeley,
I want you to catch where he's coming from,
Professor of Law at Berkeley, says when you look back to the rocks dating 570 million years,
there is the sudden appearance of nearly all the animal phyla and they appear to be fully formed.
And he quotes, without a trace of the evolutionary ancestors that Darwinists require.
Now the reason that Johnson gets into this game is because he argues, as a professor of law,
that the data doesn't make the case.
He's arguing from a legal mind
that when you look at all the evolutionary data
and you draw the conclusions that are put out there
about how we evolved,
he says it doesn't add up.
It is not intellectually sound,
and if you were to put this in a court of law,
that the jury would have to find the case null and void,
or perhaps the judge would throw it out.
Professor of Law at Berkeley saying it does not,
add up. His book, by the way, is Darwin on Trial. Well read, good study on that issue.
The fossil record does not point conclusively to the process of evolution. So now the debate
has gone to a microscopic level. I'm going to take you back a little ways to your science
books and perhaps your biology teacher from years ago. Do you remember back in the 1950s
And a gentleman by the name of Stanley Miller did a famous experiment, and he shot electricity,
which was kind of simulating lightning, he shot it through a recreation of the early
building blocks of the Earth's atmosphere, and in some sort of laboratory experiment,
they shot electricity through methane and ammonia and other primordial soup kinds of
materials, and they produced some amino acids, which are some of the building blocks of life.
and it was hailed when it came out
as a death knell for those who believe in God.
It was the end of theism
because they argued with almost a religious fervor
that primitive life could have appeared spontaneously.
And therefore, all of you that go to church,
you're silly because we've created life in the laboratory.
Lee Strobel then interviews in the book
Dr. Walter Bradley,
the retired professor at Texas A&M.
Now, bear with me, it's a little technical,
but he's an expert on chemical polymers and on thermodynamics,
which are two processes that are crucial for the creation of life.
And he is critical of that whole experiment.
He points out that since 1980,
the NASA, the National Air and Space Association administration,
has concluded from their tests in the atmosphere and so forth
that the primitive earth never had any methane, ammonia, or hydrogen to amount to anything.
Instead, the atmosphere was composed of water, carbon dioxide, and nitrogen.
And with those materials, if you shoot electricity through it, you don't get the same results.
And so what he's basically saying is, that's an interesting thing you've done in a laboratory.
By the way, you did it with intelligent design,
because you orchestrated that whole thing to come out
the direction you're hoping it to come out.
But by the way, the initial Earth
had none of those chemicals to begin with,
so it's an interesting little caveat,
but doesn't prove anything.
Is it still possible that chemicals
could in some way self-organize to create a living cell?
We're discovering now in the biological
and molecular biological levels
that the living cell is an extremely complicated little machine.
As a simple cell, for it to do what it does and take in food and replicate and process all of that
requires incredible amounts of information, is incredibly complex.
In fact, it's more complex than anything we can create on one of our supercomputers.
Living cells process energy, store information, replicate.
And for those to spontaneously form, even if you stacked the deck
and placed all the carbon in the universe
on the face of the Earth
and allowed it to chemically react
at the fastest rate possible,
and you left it for a billion years,
the chance that one functional protein molecule would emerge
is 1 in 10 with 60 zeros after it.
Sir Frederick Hoyle described that scenario as likely as this,
and I love this illustration.
Imagine a tornado whirling through a junkyard
and producing a fully functioning Boeing 747 airliner,
that's what it would take.
So not only is the complexity of the living cell
a problem for this random creation process,
but a big problem they're discovering now
is the time required.
And I got this straight from Dr. Hugh Ross at a seminar
and also from Dr. Bradley in the book,
that if you work from the assumption
that the Earth is probably less than 5 billion years old,
Even if the evolutionary process began churning away about five billion years ago, it's not enough time for the process to work.
There's not enough time since, if you argue for a Big Bang, for that to happen, to actually get to those living creatures to begin to do their work.
Complexity is a problem, and so is the time.
Now, in the book, there's a number of other scenarios that are described, and Dr. Bradley summarily kind of discredits.
And I would just encourage you to read that
as you wade through that material.
But I'd like for you now to consider some thoughts
I'm going to put on the screen here.
Klaus Dost, a biochemist,
says more than 30 years of experimentation
on the origin of life
in the fields of chemical and molecular evolution
have led to a better perception
of the immensity of the problem
of the origin of life
rather than to its solution.
At present, all discussions on principle theories and experiments in the field
end either in stalemate or in the confession of ignorance.
Remember Stanley Miller?
The one who did that original experiment back in the 50s?
Well, he said something, a scientific American, in 1991.
He was being interviewed, and he said this.
He said, the problem of the origin of life
has turned out to be much more difficult than I
and most other people envisioned.
Now, is that a classic understatement?
But listen to what he's saying.
The bravado that they had in the early 50s,
that we have solved the mystery,
God is dead, science is king,
and all of this, we have discovered
the early processes of life.
You theists, you God-fearing people,
that's quaint and cute,
But it's irrelevant because science and random process is how we evolved.
And now in 1991, he's saying, you know, it's a little more complicated than that.
Friends, our existence as living, breathing human beings, now more than ever,
in the current scientific literature and elsewhere, is pointing to an intelligent designer.
And we can call that designer God with no fear and no apology.
Chuck Colson, in the book that some of you are studying,
wrote in the book, How Now Shall We Then Live?
He says this poignant thing.
He says, the conclusion is that there are no known physical laws
capable of creating a structure like the DNA
with high information content.
Only an intelligent designer, he writes,
can type out The Night Before Christmas
or devise a computer program
or compose a musical score.
And only an intelligent cause could create the information contained in the DNA molecule.
Isn't it amazing how much information is loaded into our cells?
And whenever else we see something beautiful that we obviously know has intelligent design behind it,
a musical score or a beautiful poem or a novel or any of those things,
we know there's something behind it.
that when we look to the level of the cell and the DNA,
people want to ignore the designer that's behind it.
And it's intellectually foolish.
The whole process of evolution from one species to another is bankrupt.
And I would now even say the concept that's been proposed
as a way to bring these two together called theistic evolution
is not really satisfactory because you don't have to worry about the evolution
because the data doesn't fit it.
We don't have to try and harmonize that together.
The fossil record doesn't work,
and the time doesn't work for the process to evolve.
Friends, there's no concrete evidence that evolution is there.
Alan Sandage, a cosmologist, said this.
He wrote,
How is it that inanimate matter
can organize itself to contemplate itself?
Isn't that amazing?
But that's really what the argument says,
is that the hydrogen and the carbon
and all the great molecules in your body
have organized together to think about how it came together.
That's an amazing issue.
And the cosmologist Ellen Sandage brings that to bear.
Well, I hope I've made the case, at least to this point,
that you're standing on solid ground
when you reject the notion of random Darwinian forces,
when you contemplate how humankind came to existence.
I'm going to argue that God created human beings.
The next question, though, many of us ask is,
Well, how?
And that brings up another whole set of issues.
So now we leave kind of the science,
we leave the cosmologists for a few moments,
and we move to the biblical discussion.
Let's come back to the Bible again.
In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth.
Genesis 1-1.
I want us to understand
that there's a lot of ongoing research and discussion
and even disagreement
about how God actually created human beings.
The conclusion is coming up as an intelligent designer that has done that.
We can step in and say God created.
But for the purpose now of sharing with a friend
about why you believe that God is a rational position to stand on
and the best answer to our existence,
I hope we've come to that place.
But I want to go further.
Because I have a hunch that many of you would like to know more about the Genesis account.
You're familiar with their Bibles and you know about these six days of creation.
You know a lot about those issues, and you want to know how does that fit with the scientific data that we're talking about.
I'm going to share this morning three dominant views that take Genesis very seriously as the Word of God.
They all take God's special creation of human beings as a literal concept,
and yet they all reject the Darwinian forces as an answer to our existence.
And these three viewpoints are very different, though.
The book, The Genesis Debate,
that just came out a few months ago,
I dashed through this in preparation for this,
and I found this to be a profound book,
well-researched and well-presented
of the three different debates about the creation story,
and then rebuttals back and forth from all the characters,
and by the time you're done, your head can spin,
and you realize there's a lot of discussion in this area.
As the first chapter of Genesis unfolds, we are presented with six creation days and God
resting on the seventh.
How are we to understand these days?
Are they 24-hour periods of time?
Are they long periods of time, perhaps millions of years?
Or are they literary devices that sidestep science and time altogether?
So here are the three views.
They're called the 24-hour view, point A,
or the day-age view, or the framework view.
Now before we get into this, I want to be very clear
that the issue surrounding the creation is not a salvation issue.
This is not an issue that should split our churches.
This is not an issue that should cause us to be suspicious of each other.
Oh, he holds 24-hour view. Oh, we can't fellowship together.
That kind of stuff is ridiculous.
because earnest, intelligent, God-loving, Bible-believing,
saved-by-the-blood-of-Jesus,
filled-with-the-Holy-Spirit kind of people
are found representing all three of these views.
So we need to sort of step back as believers in Scripture
and not fight about this so vehemently.
I think it forces us to sort of investigate for ourselves
where we might come out on these issues.
But there's good reason to look at all three of them
and take them seriously.
The first one is the 24-hour view.
And this position takes a straightforward reading
of the first chapter of Genesis
and argues that if God is a God of miracles,
then he can do whatever he wants,
and if he so chooses to create in 24-hour cycles,
that's his business, his prerogative,
and there's no way for us to say he could
or could not have done it that way.
It's a logical position.
So here's the strengths of this argument.
Number one, it's straightforward.
It's theologically sound.
Much of the early church believed that position.
And it rejects kind of an accommodation to the spirit of the age,
kind of to this intellectual or chronological snobbery
that is assuming that every new idea is better than an old idea,
that every new idea is superior.
It just says, God says this.
He's a miracle worker.
It can make sense, straightforward.
And the early church fathers, by and large, took this position.
That's the 24-hour view.
It has good merit.
The day-age view sees the days of creation as ages of long duration.
This view highly values both the revelation that comes from Scripture
and also the revelation that comes as we observe nature
and test it and put it through its paces.
It wants to integrate those two as that God made the earth and God reveals himself in scripture and we can discern things from about him as we look at both.
This view does a great job of harmonizing the creation account that the scientific model about a hot big bang about five billion years ago would have brought about.
And so the strengths here are it is consistent with current science.
It's testable.
The proponents of this view are talking about how the creation days
do line up with how, over various millions of years,
the earth would be changing and getting ready for life.
And they take that very seriously.
And they can test, if they work from certain assumptions,
they can test for and find out if those values are true.
And they can look for things in current chemistry and biology and physics
that would back up their view.
And they can find those things.
And they continue to find those things almost on a daily basis.
It's testable, and it's also theologically sound.
The last one is the framework view.
And the framework view really sees those creation days
as a literary device that the author of the book of Genesis
used to teach incredibly powerful theological principles.
And I'm going to kind of read through them.
First of all, looking at creation kingdoms.
Day one is light.
Day two then comes the sky and the seas.
Day three is the dry land and the vegetation.
And then starting on day four are the creatures,
the kings, if you will, that take over and dominate those kingdoms.
So going back to day one and day four,
the luminaries are in the realm where there is light.
And number day five, the sea creatures and the winged creatures
fulfill and fill the area where the skies and the sea are the kingdoms to fill.
And day six, the land animals and eventually human beings,
they fill up what day three created, the dry land and the vegetation.
And then you go to the creator king of day seven,
who's lord of the Sabbath.
And that model comes directly out of this book on page 224.
The framework view is also theologically sound.
It's not contrary to science.
It's not even really bound to science.
It just sort of sidesteps the issue and says,
whatever science finds, that's okay,
because the author is communicating theological truth to us.
And number three, it's got strong literary and theological content in that view.
In sum, this is where I'm going to come out now,
I view each of these views as having something to contribute valuable to the debate.
I also find when studying a book like this
that each view kind of camps on one issue
and really goes to town on that issue
and in some ways talks past the other ones.
Even when they rebut each other,
they're not really addressing directly all the issues raised each time.
They grab one part of the position that they like,
They run with it strongly, but they still somewhat miss.
And it shows the complexity and the breadth of the issue,
because there's many different ways to look at it.
At this point in my own journey,
I'm finding myself coming somewhere in a synthesis, a hybrid,
of both the day-age view and the literary view,
but I'm still working it out.
I find you can actually hold those two views almost simultaneously
without much shifting or maneuvering,
and you can actually see them
almost as layers on top of each other.
But I urge you all to study and pray
and see where the quest will take you
because it's a fascinating journey
and worthy of getting on that road
and seeing what God will say.
To recap, I just want to say this.
Friends, you are standing on solid ground
when you affirm to the world
that God created you and me.
You are neither a monkey's uncle
nor a monkey's child.
And whatever you may read at the zoo
or listen to headphones as you tour the animal parks
and all these things,
you did not evolve from the animals.
There's no data to support that.
Friends, that position is more religion than science.
You are a special human being
created to manage God's creation
and to have relationship with God
and with each other.
And I hope I've made the case this morning
that a belief in God is a rational proposition,
that it requires a God with all the creative powers
beyond our ability to create such complex
and special creatures as you and I.
And if I've not made the case and slammed it shut,
it's my hope that I've brought you at least to a place
of questioning what you've been receiving
from different sources,
and that it will drive you on your own journey
to investigate and search out truth
and to find God in the process.
And so my challenge to you and my blessing would be
may God bless you in that process.
And now would you pray with me?
Our Father and our God and our Creator,
thank you again for the privilege of life.
Thank you that as we investigate more closely
the reality that you created,
that we begin to see your fingerprint on the very creation.
And I pray, Father, that the words we've talked about
and all the different scientists we've quoted
and all of this data would begin to push us
further along in the journey, our intellectual quest,
what would put us on solid ground as we share with others.
And, Father, you'd use this for our own edification
and for evangelism as we share the truth with others.
Father, this world needs to be liberated
from the idea that life is meaningless
because we're just advanced forms of sea slime.
Father, you have a purpose for our lives.
And you created us for that purpose.
May each of us find that,
be rooted in that,
be strengthened in that,
and operate in ministry out of that place.
Father, pour out your spirit upon us today.
Encourage us with the truth of your word.
Help us understand how it all fits together.
and bless us, we ask, as we continue to marvel at who you are
and the goodness of creation.
We thank you for it.
So, Father, as we sing these final words of these songs,
do your work this morning.
Touch our lives and draw us closer to you.
We pray this in Jesus' name.
I'm going to invite you to stand.
And if there's a need in your life, as always,
we welcome you to come as we sing these final songs.
If you'd like some prayer, you just come down here
and one of our leaders will come
and just pray with you
or answer some questions.
But feel like this is a time for ministry
and for receiving from the Lord something.
So you feel free to come
if that's your need this morning.
Today would you lead us.
Be a day of fun.
Be blessed as you leave in Jesus' name.
