The speaker quotes Scripture, tells stories, and uses proper punctuation, capitalization, and complete sentences.
And so today I want to look at marriage.
And for those of you not married at this time, I hope this will be an encouragement to you.
I want to begin by starting off with something that might sound familiar to you.
He knows I don't like to talk in the morning.
Why can't she just trust me?
We've done fine so far, haven't we?
Doesn't he know I'm busy?
Can't she see that I'm tired?
I'll spend my money the way I want to.
I have feelings too.
Doesn't anybody understand that?
I'm a person too.
I wish he wouldn't act that way.
Who does she think she is anyway?
I know he really doesn't care.
He can't.
I know it.
Is that all the thanks I get?
Won't he ever learn?
I've just got to get out of here.
Maybe you've had some of those feelings.
Maybe you know somebody who does.
Are there answers to the crying needs in that monologue?
Yes. Yes, there are.
What does a Christian marriage look like anyway?
Outside of the walls of this church, there are lots of marriages.
But what does a Christian marriage look like?
You see, there can be a marriage between two people who are Christians,
and then there's a Christian marriage.
and they are different.
And this morning I want to explore
what God says about a Christian marriage.
The Bible says,
for this reason a man
will leave his father and mother
and be united to his wife
and they will become one flesh.
Friends, God can make that happen.
A marriage relationship wrapped in unity,
mutual trust and respect,
common goals and dreams.
But sadly,
so many marriages are not about unity
or mutual respect or common goals
instead they are either abusive
oppressive or just two individuals
two roommates going in their
separate directions but God has a
different plan for marriage and so I'm indebted
to a discipleship article years ago by Lauren White
for an outline for this message and I want to share with
you some insights from this author and from my own study of the scriptures.
Friends, if you're going to have a Christian marriage,
not just two people who are Christians, you want to make sure
that you are living out five commitments that I'm going to share
this morning. Five basic commitments.
Though many marriages break up over the big three, and I share this with
couples as they sit before marriage counseling with me, here are the big three.
money sex and communication if things go awry there marriages often can dissolve but i think
those are symptoms of even deeper issues and these five commitments i think help us to combat
the symptoms of breakdown and so here's the first one number one a commitment to grow in christ
for the rest of your life.
If you are going to have a Christian marriage,
you must be committed to grow in Christ
each and every day.
You never get to plateau.
You never get to stop growing.
The Christian life is a life of learning
and growing and maturing.
We can always learn more.
We can always stretch a little more.
Friends, we're only going to be perfect
when we finally see Jesus face to face.
And until then, it's a growing, maturing process.
And if we don't grow with Christ, then our relationships around us begin to stagnate as well, including marriages.
Ephesians chapter 4, Paul writes,
We will hold to the truth in love, becoming, listen, more and more in every way like Christ,
who is the head of His body, the church.
More and more.
Here's Paul. To me, I think he's a mature Christian, writing, we're going to grow more and more each and every day.
Marriage is an ever-changing, dynamic relationship through the ups and the downs of life.
To keep that relationship vibrant, we must continually be growing in wisdom, character, and responsibility.
It takes an open, teachable person to develop the characteristics to be a good, healthy marriage partner.
You can't have a closed mind.
You can't go before the Lord and say, I am done.
I like the way I am just right here.
Because your spouse will outgrow you.
How do you become like that?
You do it through Christ.
That's the heart of what it means to have a Christian marriage.
Two people without Christ can have a marriage.
Two Christians can have a marriage.
But without a commitment to growing in Christ for the rest of your life,
you don't really have a Christian marriage.
My question is this, will you commit to growing in Christ for the rest of your life?
That's a bold commitment.
But if marriages are going to survive, and not just survive, but thrive,
we need to be committed each and every day, first of all, to Jesus,
and to grow, and to be stretched all along the way.
Number two, commitment number two is to stay committed to our marriages for life
and to work and solve the problems that arise.
Many marriages are on the rocks these days, sadly, both inside and outside the church.
And I so often see this mentality in our culture today that it's kind of like,
I'm going to have this marriage until something better comes along
or until things just don't work out.
This is fine for now, but we don't commit to really work it out.
Malachi chapter 2, the Bible says, God says, you cry out.
Why has the Lord abandoned us?
God says, I'll tell you why.
Because the Lord witnessed the vows you and your wife made to each other on your wedding day when you were young.
But you have been disloyal to her.
Though she remained your faithful companion, the wife of your marriage vows.
Didn't the Lord make you one with your wife?
In body and spirit you are his.
And what does he want?
Godly children from your union.
So guard yourself.
Remain loyal to the wife of your youth.
For I hate divorce, says the Lord, the God of Israel.
God hates it.
Is divorce the unforgivable sin?
Absolutely not.
There is grace for those who have been through that kind of trauma.
But I want us to recapture this value
that marriage is not to be entered in too lightly.
And it's to be committed for life as much as we can help it.
When a marriage ends, it plays havoc.
work on the couple and their friends and their family and the community and the church and on
and on and on. If a marriage is in trouble, the challenge of God's Word is to do all they can to
make it work, to pray, to seek wisdom, to seek counseling, to seek accountability. Do all they
can to make it work. Charlie Shedd wrote some books on marriage, and one has a chapter in it
that I find interesting. He wrote this chapter called The 20-Year Warm-Up, and he's saying that
reality is that a married couple, it takes 20 years before you begin to understand your spouse.
I'm only halfway there. No wonder we don't get it yet. It takes 20 years. Many struggles today in
marriages are personality issues, personalities in conflict, the things that attracted you to
your spouse, that different dimension of their personality, perhaps something you don't have,
was really attractive. Three years later, it drives you crazy, and it just gets worse,
because you realize they're not going to change. As much as you wanted to change them,
they're not changing. They're getting rigid, and now you're stuck. I'm light with that,
But reality is this, that personality issues, how God made us and hardwired us, can often be a deep struggle for marriages.
And after a few years, they don't want to appreciate the other and those gifts and that personality type.
I'm more extroverted.
I'm pell-mell, high energy, stress bucket, she calls me.
You're figuring that out.
Never stop.
My wife's an introvert.
She'll gather with some people.
After 20 minutes, she's done.
Time to go home.
Time to recuperate.
Two hours of reading.
Then she's back up to speed.
We have conflict.
Honey, let's go to Disneyland.
I'm out of here.
I've been working hard.
We've got to go play.
She wants to retreat.
Friday night can be a conflict for us.
What are we going to do to recapture our energy?
I'm being light with that.
That's a simple one.
But I'm Palmel.
I'm piles everywhere.
She's neat and orderly.
Conflict.
But I've learned to appreciate, and I'm trying to appreciate more and more, her orderliness.
Trying.
And she's trying to appreciate my wacko energy level.
And she just says it the other day, oh, you filled up my counter again.
I just cleaned it off.
Well, yeah, that's what counters are for, lots of space to see everything.
Aren't we communicating?
So many relationship struggles, though, are those deep personality issues,
the way God hardwired us to be, introverts, extroverts, orderly people, not orderly people,
you know, on and on. Those things can be attractive and can be fun, but they can also cause us great
strife. There's a great book called Please Understand Me by Kersey and Bates. I just
recommend that as something to read and to understand your personality type and then figure
out your spouse and figure out why you're on a collision course all the time. You're different
personalities. It's okay. But God is challenging us to appreciate those differences and to commit
to understand them. If Charlie Shedd is right, it takes 20 years. If your marriage lacks luster and
energy, and you're bored, and you're looking around, if your spouse's personality is driving
you nuts, will you recommit to appreciate them and to love them in the Lord? Now, if you're married
to an abusive partner, that's a different story, and I want you to come see me. That's a very
different animal. We can talk privately about those things, but I just want us to be, if we're
just driving each other nuts, can we say, God, you made them that way, and I fell in love with that
one day. May I draw close to that again. Will you make a fresh commitment to making your marriage
work that honors God and your spouse? Number three, to be faithful to my mate in both mind
and action. Christian marriage is about faithfulness in body and in mind. Most marriages
today involve faithfulness in body, but not necessarily in the mind. That's a real challenge.
Jesus said in Matthew 5 verse 27, you have heard the law of Moses says, do not commit adultery,
but I say anyone who even looks at a woman with lust in his eye has already committed adultery
with her in his heart.
Ann Landers wrote one time that it's okay to have sexual fantasies about others, but
Jesus doesn't say that.
Common wisdom may say, well, that's a healthy outlet.
That's fine.
Jesus says, no way.
Many of you know that I really enjoy the hobby of the guitar, and my obsession level with
it goes up and down.
I spend a lot of time on the internet actually looking at guitar amps and www.guitarriffs.com
and, you know, scales and modes and theory
and sometimes I'll go on and look for products.
Other times I'll go on and look for rock stars and bands
and see what equipment they have
and I was looking for some music
and I typed in this thing,
WW something or other,
and got the wrong thing
and I got a whole face full of porn.
Totally caught me by surprise.
My friends had talked about how it's easy
to accidentally hit one keystroke
and get all this garbage.
It never happened in the number of years
I've had the internet until this week.
Bam, there it was.
And I mean, it about blew me out of my chair.
Delete, delete, delete.
But you know what's so insidious was that they've built in the, oh, no, you don't.
As you delete it, more keeps coming.
And I finally got rid of it.
It's on my hard drive.
I've got to get rid of it.
I've got Kent coming over in the next week or two to delete all this garbage off.
I told my wife, Robin, this weird website came up.
I didn't go there on purpose.
I quickly said, look, it's not my thing.
But I've got to defuse that, right?
In this day and age, though, friends, it is so easy to have this garbage just coming through.
And there are so many Christian marriages that are struggling because we're faithful in body but not in mind.
Men, let me just say this.
Do not go there.
Statistically, I've read that 9 out of 10 Christian men are struggling with pornography today, and the 10th one is lying.
That's the statistic.
Now, that's a little over the top, but I'm not sure really where that is.
I just want to say to you men, it is easy and it's insidious
and it will begin to undo your soul and your marriage.
Do not go there.
Be accountable.
Get the software.
My next tool is to get the blocking software.
There's even software that says if you go to certain sites,
it will send that site to your accountability partner
so they can see what you've been looking at.
If that's what you need to do, you need to go there.
And I'm not kidding about this.
This will undo your life and your soul and your relationship with God
and your marriage.
Now women, I just poked at the men,
here's one thing for you.
You may struggle a little differently.
You don't usually go to the visual sites
and you may not be looking at airbrushed bodies,
but women will go to novels and books
and soap operas and emotional things
to get that emotional connection that they're craving
and fantasize on a whole different level.
But it's still the same.
It's not faithfulness.
And it also brings a distance
between you and your spouse.
And it seems okay, it's just
the soap, it's just ABC
at 2 o'clock, it's just
a novel I picked up next to the
Doritos in the grocery store,
but that stuff
pollutes us.
And it makes us compare.
My husband never does that.
He never says those things, and on and on
and on before long, I wish I
had a different husband. Our unfaithful
actions can be headed off by
a commitment to
think romantically only about your spouse. These are choices we make. These are commitments.
And they're big. They really are. It's your choice. Christian men and women, we don't let
our minds go to seed and break down the trust between us and our spouse. That's the difference
between two Christians who are married and a Christian marriage, is we commit to keep the
other in our forefront of our mind and no one else? Are you committed to absolute faithfulness
with your spouse in mind and in body? Will you relinquish anything that causes you to be unfaithful
in your mind or your body to communicate no matter what? The kind of relationship that God
wants between a husband and a wife is to communicate their deepest thoughts, their feelings, their
dreams, their desires, their fears, their frustrations, all of it. God intended marriage
to be that kind of relationship, Genesis 129. Now, although Adam and his wife were both naked,
neither of them felt any shame. They were physically able to stand in each other's
presence and not be ashamed, but the text also hints that there was an emotional sense of that
as well, that they were totally open with each other.
That's intimacy.
A Christian marriage is built on Christ's love for us,
his complete acceptance of us.
And thus, when God accepts us completely,
we have the freedom then to love and accept our spouse.
Song of Solomon, there's a racy book for you.
That book describes the beautiful sexual love
between a husband and a wife.
It's a wonderful expression.
That's one kind of intimacy.
And God created that and enjoys that experience in the bonds of marriage.
Intimacy can also look like Priscilla and Aquila who worked together as tent makers,
sharing ministry with Paul, sharing doctrine with Apollos, ministering to the Roman church.
A Christian couple is intimate emotionally and physically and intellectually and spiritually.
Too often, sad to say, couples, though, they get into a rut.
they don't communicate
themselves with the other
and before long the relationship
is just information
what happened today this and that
oh me too thus and thus well great
what's for dinner
who's turn to put the kids to bed
goodnight relationships can
degenerate can't they into just roommates
sharing pertinent
information not
too deep not too real
just getting by Christian
marriage is not just roommates Christian
marriage, is people committed to Christ and to growing and to connecting and doing whatever it
takes to communicate and to connect. Sometimes you get into a relational jam. There's silence and
tears and defensiveness and the kids just won't go away. They won't leave or lack of time, whatever
the roadblock. Can you be committed to transcending those things, to connect and to communicate,
to restore emotional intimacy, to seek a counselor, seek whatever you need, accountability,
do whatever it takes to communicate.
So I ask, will you communicate
and commit to that no matter what?
That's four commitments I think really
make marriage, Christian marriage
and hold it together and make
it blossom. The fifth one is this.
It's to be a servant.
We were created to love
and to serve God.
And in addition, men and women were
created to love and to
serve each other.
And in a committed Christian marriage,
both spouses serve and submit to each other.
Notice what Paul writes in chapter 5 of Ephesians.
And further he writes,
you will submit to one another out of reverence for Christ.
Notice this.
You will submit to each other.
Now here's what it looks like is how the text unfolds.
Wives will submit to your husbands as you do to the Lord.
For a husband is the head of his wife
as Christ is the head of his body, the church.
he gave his life to be her Savior.
As the church submits to Christ,
so you wives must submit to your husbands in everything.
And you husbands, this is how you will do submission.
You will love your wives with the same love
that Christ loved and showed the church.
Guess what, men?
Christ died for the church.
That's submission.
He gave his life up for her to make her holy and clean,
washed by baptism in God's word.
He did this to present her to himself as a glorious church
without a spot or wrinkle or any other blemish.
Instead, she will be holy and without fault.
In the same way, husbands ought to love their wives
as they love their own bodies.
For a man is actually loving himself when he loves his wife.
No one hates his own body, but lovingly cares for it,
just as Christ cares for his body, which is the church,
and we are his body.
What does submit really mean?
We have a visceral reaction to that word from our culture.
We really bristle, I'm not submitting.
I'm not going to submit to him.
I'm not going to submit to her.
Submission is to consider the other greater than yourself.
It's to stop being selfish and to serve the other.
It's not about obedience.
It's not about a slave relationship.
It's not about weakness.
It's about voluntary surrender to bless the other
and put yourself aside for a moment.
Wives, submit to the husbands.
Give up their self-centeredness.
Take seriously their mutuality with their husbands.
Promote the benefit of their husbands.
And the husband, same thing.
You don't lord anything over your wife.
You're responsible to present her holy and blameless.
you're to love her and nurture her.
Give up your self-centeredness
that your wife may flourish and thrive.
Mutual submission is
that both partners put away selfishness.
That you both look out for what's best for the other.
If she's better at making those decisions
than the husbands, let her make them.
It's better for both of you.
If he's better at certain things,
let him decide.
Work together in mutual submission, says Paul.
Sometimes mutual submission is to let one have the prime spotlight for a while.
It's his turn to get the education, and then suddenly he's got the job.
Now it's her turn.
You submit to each other, and you certainly need to divide the chores.
If he's better at the lawn, bless his heart, get him out there.
If she's better at certain things, then she does that.
It's not woman's work to do one or the other.
You mutually submit to each other because you love and respect each other.
So divide it up so that it gets done as fast as possible so you can go out on a date.
Amen?
In a Christian marriage, the needs and the desires of both partners are taken seriously.
In Christian marriage, both spouses strive to live like Jesus.
Philippians chapter 2, Paul says this,
Don't be selfish. Don't live to make a good impression on others.
Be humble, thinking of others as better than yourself.
Don't think only about your own affairs.
Be interested in others too and what they are doing.
How is your wife growing? How is your husband growing?
Your attitude should be the same that Jesus had.
Though he was God, he did not demand and cling to his rights as God.
He made himself nothing.
He took the humble position of a slave and appeared in human form.
Jesus is the archetype.
Jesus shows us how to do it.
If Jesus as God did not demand his right to stay in heaven,
but submitted to the Father and come be with us,
husbands and wives we can submit to each other for the best in the other will you live humble
lives and commit to pursue the best for your spouse i believe that when marriage partners
are growing in christ and committed to each other in faithfulness and committing to serve each other
and committing to appreciate each other and seeking wisdom and accountability and growing
in their souls and in their relational skills, then a
Christian marriage can really be a blessing and be a thriving
experience. It's sad to say for too many Christian couples
it's just one shred better than whatever else is going on
in the world and it shouldn't be like that. And I realize that many in this room
are struggling with some of these issues and some of you have been
divorced and you're wondering where does this fit and I'm just praying that God is going to speak
somehow to your souls. And I don't know how all of this will strike you, but I know that God is
speaking to me to share this. My prayer is that God would move and do miracles and stretch us and
grow us and mature us in Christ. That these five commitments to grow in Christ, to work at our
problems, to be faithful in both mind and in body, to communicate and to be a servant would really not
just be theoretical, but would really be bedrock values and commitments that this church would
undertake. So I'm going to do a bold thing. As we sing our final song, if you were a couple and you
would just like me to pray a blessing over you, you come. Because marriages, no matter what stage
you're in, whether you're just starting or you're at the 10-year mark and you're halfway to
understanding each other, or if you're at 20 years, you're just getting it, or you're out here at 50
years, maybe you can all use a blessing from the Lord. And I'm here to give that and just to pray
over you. And if you're so bold to come, I'll just be right here after the service is over as well,
and I'll just put my hands on you and bless you and ask God to grow you and stretch you and develop
you and move you to new heights. And so if God is calling you to come, you come. But may God bless
his word and these topics
and these challenges.
May God go with you today
and love you and just wrap
his arms around you. Let's stand
and we'll sing and couples if you want to come
you feel free and we'll stay here
right up until 11 o'clock if we have to.
