God is the audience.
And when you think about that, there's a bit of term, paradigm shift, if you will, that struck home with me.
I no longer come to Sunday school or Sunday morning worship and get prepared to play the songs.
I think about who I'm playing to.
I don't think, no offense, I don't think about so much as I'm playing to you people, but I'm playing for God.
and God is my audience now
and that's where I've shifted
my thinking. Another thing
I've learned is that
worship is just not for
Sunday mornings of course. It takes
some preparation to
come to worship on Sundays and
one thing I've learned about this
book that we've been reading
in the band is
it's good to prepare
ahead of time, even the night before
because you are so, if you're like
me, my wife and I, we have a couple of kids, and my wife is now teaching
in the twos and threes, and Sunday mornings became very busy for us because I get here
at 7.30 to rehearse with the band. You don't have time to sit around
and prepare, so I haven't perfected it yet, but
I've been working real hard to sit down on Saturday nights and
think about worship and think about God and what God
means to me on Saturday nights, and I look forward to coming here
Sunday morning preparing the music
and preparing to come to the worship service
and praising God and worshiping him.
Thank you.
I appreciate people who serve with such energy
and are learning and are growing,
and Randy's been a great friend and brother
to worship alongside together.
Thank you for sharing your testimony.
Let's talk about love today.
All you need is love, said the Beatles.
Then they broke up, which I think's interesting.
But we're an adventure in worship,
And within that series, we're embarking on a short mini-series on qualities for a victorious life.
And the connection is this.
If we have joy and love and faith and hope in our lives, then you're living a life that's victorious.
You're living a victorious Christian life.
And when you're living a victorious Christian life, then when you come to worship on Sunday mornings,
You bring that victory, that joy, that excitement with you, and you offer that to God, who is
the audience, as Randy just shared.
As we're learning, God is the audience.
When we live out those values, we bring those to God.
I love what Henry Ward Beecher said, I never knew how to worship until I knew how to love.
There it is.
And that's why we've chosen love this morning, as we look at what is love, and how do we
bring love that we might bless God in our worship? Is your life full of love? The next question might
be, what is love anyway? When I say the word love, many of us conjure up all sorts of images about
what love is and what love looks like. Love is one of the deepest human needs of all, yet it's also
extremely misunderstood and misused concept. Much of the confusion about love comes from our
society's very mixed up understanding of what love is. What is love? People have killed their
children in the name of love. Husbands have beaten wives in the name of love. Fatal attractions
type stalking has been done in the name of love. Love can be a dangerous thing. Obviously it's a
distortion of love. And let's be honest, love in the media and music often shapes the way that we
view what love is. And it tends to give us an unreal expectation about what love is. I'm a rock
aficionado, love the guitars, but the lyrics often are wanting for their description of love
is ridiculous. It's usually about feeling and passion and sensations. They're really
describing falling in love as if that's the whole thing and they miss it country music's no better
like most of the themes in country music about the line of my pickup broke down my wife left me my
dog kicked me out of the house stuff like that but i love this lyric i just discovered it's about
a gentleman who's struggling between fishing and his wife and the chorus goes something like this
I'm going to miss her when I get home.
So we're not going to get a lot of good understanding about love from our media and music.
We're not going to get it from the films and the movies either.
Some recent blockbuster movies try and portray love.
How many of you saw the Titanic?
Many of you.
It was about a boat, but it really wasn't about the boat.
It was really about two young lovers that get swept up in a 48-hour love affair
and their passion for each other
and what's his name?
Jack and Rose.
And Jack is trying to save Rose at the end.
He slips under the water
and at the end everybody's crying
and you just want that love
that Jack and Rose share for each other.
Give me a break.
It was 48 hours.
It's not love.
It was infatuation.
It was falling in love.
It was all those things.
The film doesn't give us the depth
of what love really is pearl harbor battle of britain pearl harbor doolittle raid were the
backdrops to the film but the real issue was these two army pilots rafe and danny and this
their love affair with evelyn and we see again love is this passionate feeling but they've missed
it even the dictionary i think misses it when online dictionary i looked at said love is a deep
tender ineffable feeling of affection and solicitude towards a person that arises from kinship
recognition of attractive qualities or a sense of underlying oneness that's full of words
and yet i think lacking in depth there are actually four greek words for love did you know that
each one has a different meaning and i want to help us understand these and see where our
contemporary understandings of love come from and which one is the real deep love that the
scripture is talking about. The first one is eros, the physical, sensational, erotic type of love.
We get the word erotic from eros. This word is never used in the New Testament. The second word
for love in Greek is phileo, that brotherly, sisterly love between friends, the camaraderie
of friendship. The city of Philadelphia gets its name from that word. The city of what? Brotherly
love. The third word for love in Greek is storge. It's the type of love you have for a family, for
a sister, for parents and children. And finally, the most common word for love in the New Testament
over and over is the word that many of you know. It's the word agape. And that word often associated
with God is also the love we're supposed to have for each other and for God. So what is this agape
love? Whenever you see love, usually in the New Testament, it's this kind of love, agape. It's an
unconditional love by choice. It's not based on a criteria you've met. It's not that you're good
enough to be loved by me. Agape is given freely, even to those who don't deserve it. Agape does
not seek to possess it seeks to give and to bless great church reformer martin luther said this said
some marriages were motivated by mere lust but mere lust is felt even by fleas and lice
love begins he says when we wish to serve others it's true it's true agape is that self-sacrificing
love like Jesus from the cross so I like for us to look at the scriptures this morning and see
where this agape love where it shows up in different texts and how that might bless us
and encourage us this morning as we try and fill out our love that we might come and worship more
fully number one we see an example of love God's character who he is is best summed up in this
marvelous verse John 3 16 for God so loved agape the world he gave his only son so that everyone
who believes in him will not perish but have eternal life do the people of the world deserve
God's love after we violated God's moral and perfect boundaries no but he loves us anyway
He loves us so much that he sacrificed his own son in our place.
God's justice is satisfied, our lives are spared, but God sacrificed for us.
That is love.
To heck with Titanic and Pearl Harbor, that is love.
God laying his life down through his son.
That kind of love is far more profound, far deeper than any contemporary understanding.
In any media today, this kind of love is a profound kind of love.
It's the kind of love that Jesus had for his disciples.
He spent three years with them.
He spent time with them.
He nurtured their hearts and their heads.
He showed them the kingdom, and then he died for them.
And he said in John 15,
This is my commandment, that you love, that you agape one another, as I have loved you.
No one has greater love than this, to lay down one's life for one's friend.
What an example of agape love.
In Scripture, we see examples of this kind of agape love.
We also see the command to love.
When one of the religious leaders tries to trip up Jesus,
he asked him this question in Matthew 22.
He said, Teacher, which is the most important commandment in the law of Moses?
And Jesus replied, you must love, agape, the Lord your God with all of your heart and all of your soul and all of your mind.
That's the first and the greatest commandment.
A second is equally important.
Love your neighbor as yourself.
All the other commandments and all the demands of the prophets are based on these two commandments.
Again, that agape kind of love.
Jesus is saying the appropriate way to live
is to love God and to love others.
And that makes sense.
The psychiatrist, Dr. Carl Menninger,
said this about love.
He said, love cures people,
both the ones who give it
and the ones who receive it.
It's powerful, isn't it?
Love cures people,
the ones who give and the ones who receive.
Friends, for us as Christians,
whether or not to love others
friends or foes is not an option it's a command it's it's how life is to be lived and it's
interesting how that kind of love has certain benefits both to those who are giving and those
who are receiving and what does that kind of love look like well the most famous passage on love
shares this brilliance you may have heard of this read at many weddings but this kind of love this
agape love is far deeper than just the romantic love it's that sacrificial love we've been looking
at and here it is first corinthians chapter 13 paul says if i could speak in any language in
heaven or on earth but didn't love others i would only be making meaningless noise like a loud gong
or a clanging cymbal if i had the gift of prophecy and i knew all the mysteries of the future
and knew everything about everything,
but I didn't love others,
what good would I be?
And if I had the gift of faith
so that I could speak to a mountain
and make it move without love,
I would be no good to anybody.
If I gave everything I have to the poor,
even sacrificed my body,
I could boast about it,
but if I didn't love others,
I would be of no value whatsoever.
Love is patient and kind.
Love is not jealous or boastful or proud or rude.
Love does not demand its own way.
Love is not irritable.
It keeps no record of when it has been wronged.
It's never glad about injustice,
but rejoices whenever the truth wins out.
Love never gives up, never loses faith.
it's always hopeful and endures through every circumstance that's agape that kind of love
holds water doesn't it that kind of love has depth that kind of love has staying power
and so we come to the response of love the bible affirms that god's love for us requires
a response first john 3 1 how great is the love the father has lavished on us that we should be
called the children of god and that is what we are in john 14 23 those who love me will keep my word
and my father will love them and we will come to them and make our home with them and so then we
come back to this verse John 15 this is my commandment that you love one another as I have
loved you no one has greater love than this than to lay down one's life for one's friends
how do we do that how do we live that kind of love that we see exemplified in scripture
we're loved by God forgiven by God called to love God and our neighbors but how do we do it
I think one of the answers here is in Galatians 5.
When the Holy Spirit controls our lives,
He will produce this kind of fruit in us.
Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control.
Friends, the more of Jesus Christ that I have,
the more of Jesus Christ that you have,
the more we submit our wills to His,
the more we stay in step with the Spirit of God,
the more His power flows through us.
And the more the Spirit's power flows through us,
the fruit of the Spirit begins to ripen in our lives.
And love, this agape love, begins to ripen,
begins to develop, begins to grow.
The fruit of the Spirit, Galatians 5.
those wonderful attributes love joy peace patience kindness and so on it's easy to read the scripture
and think that those are for the super christians but those descriptions is what a life submitted
to christ just looks like as we stay in step with the spirit allow him to to grow those things
these become what it means to live the victorious christian life for all of us
And when that happens, when the Spirit is moving in our lives
and filling us and producing these kinds of fruit,
then as it's been said, this comes true,
the common transactions of life
become the most sacred channels
for the spread of God's fruit to others.
Standing in line at the grocery store becomes a holy moment
as you give love and joy to the checkout person.
Buying a hamburger after church
becomes an opportunity to love the person who hands you the dripping burger wherever we are
in life become opportunities these simple places for god's truth and love and peace and patience
and kindness to take root and to overflow in our lives joni erickson tada some of you may know her
the woman who was became a paraplegic in an accident years ago she wrote this in a book
called Diamonds in the Dust.
She wrote,
Always love is a choice.
She says,
You come up against scores of opportunities every day
to love or not to love.
You encounter hundreds of small chances
to please your friends,
delight your Lord,
and encourage your family.
That's why love and obedience are intimately linked.
You can't have one without the other.
It's true, isn't it?
Here are some practical ideas about whom and how to love.
The first one is probably the easiest.
It's to love those who are close to us.
Someone once said,
To love the whole world for me is no chore.
The only real problem is my neighbor next door.
It's true, isn't it?
Can we love those close to us, close in proximity?
Can we demonstrate love to those who are right in our sphere of influence?
you know we're commanded to love no matter how inconsiderate our spouse might be at times
no matter how unreasonable our parents are no matter how disrespectful our children might be
no matter how selfish our friends are we are to love and display love and peace and patience and
kindness to those right around us because the spirit of god is cultivating love in our lives
if you want to know if there's love flowing in your home ask these questions
H.B. London said, one criteria of family health is this.
Are you saying, I'm sorry?
Are you saying, I forgive you?
And are you saying, I love you, often, to those in your family, in your immediate sphere?
Criterion for family health, challenging.
We're also called to love those who are different from us.
I don't like that person's piercings.
I don't like the color of their skin.
and I don't feel comfortable around this person or that person
might be the echo of your heart.
They might be different, but God loves them.
They may listen to different music.
They may dance to a different beat.
They might live in a different neighborhood.
They might be a totally different kind of person
with different values and interests,
but can we not demonstrate the fruit of the Spirit
in loving others who are different from us?
If you keep your eyes open, they will cross your path all the time.
You don't have to go looking very far to find people who are different from us.
Just look around this room.
Many of you are very different, and that's great.
That's what heaven will look like one day.
The Bible says all nations, all tribes, all languages, all colors
will all be at the seat of the throne.
Number three, can we love those who disagree with us?
It's easy to love those who think like we do.
Can you love somebody and be gracious and loving
and want the best for them even if they disagree?
Remember, friends, that Christians,
even though we disagree within the church,
Christians are never our enemies.
They are our family.
We can love those who disagree with us.
We can also finally love those who irritate us.
That's a toughie, isn't it?
It's hard to love people who bug us.
it's not easy to love people who we think are stupid is it or dumb or whatever because they
don't think like we do that they bug us they get under our skin oh i wish i wouldn't have to see
them every week kind of people you know god can do a lot in your life by growing fruit of the spirit
by just putting them in your path and challenging you to love them as god loves them for somebody
in the church that rubs you the wrong way we need to make a special effort change our attitude and
treat others in a loving way by the power of the spirit of God D.L. Moody the great evangelist
years ago said this he said joy is love exalted and peace is love and repose long suffering is
love enduring. Gentleness is love in society. Goodness is love in action. Faith is love on the
battlefield. Meekness is love in school. And temperance is love in training. It's the fruit
of the Spirit as we see how love permeates all of those. Ephesians chapter 5. Follow God's example
in everything you do
because you are his dear children.
Live a life filled with love for others,
following the example of Christ
who loved you and gave himself
as a sacrifice to take away your sins.
Last week was joy.
This week is love.
Two qualities for a victorious life.
If we live agape love,
love by the power of the Spirit,
our lives will be transformed.
We'll have incredible meaning
and we'll be a blessing to many
as we let that cultivate in our soul.
And as it relates to worship,
I conclude with this.
1 Timothy 1, verse 3-5.
Paul writes to Timothy,
When I left for Macedonia,
I urged you to stay there in Ephesus
and stop those who are teaching wrong doctrine.
Don't let people waste time
in endless speculation over myths
and spiritual pedigrees.
For these things only cause arguments.
They didn't help people live a life of faith in God.
The purpose of my instruction is that all the Christians there would be filled with love
that comes from a pure heart, a clear conscience, and a sincere faith.
A pure heart, a clear conscience, a sincere faith.
It's my prayer that we of Fullerton First Baptist would be a people that seek the Spirit
to cultivate love that comes as we generate from God
a pure heart, a clear conscience, and sincere faith.
And the neat thing is when we live out those values,
when we live out those experiences,
when we allow God to stretch us to love others
who are like us and different from us,
who irritate us, who are close to us,
whatever we do, whoever we love,
that we would then bring that love
into this worship center
That we bring it in as the culmination of our worship with God all week
as we now come and bring and celebrate the love that God has filled our lives with throughout the week.
The victories we've had as we've loved somebody difficult.
The victory that we loved somebody who was different.
And we offer that in worship to God.
As I said last week, we bring those victorious qualities into the sanctuary week after week.
and we offer that to God
we lift the lid of this place
right off the foundation
we become a real blessing to God
and a wonderful place to be as well
and may God bless you
as we learn to live
agape love
as we struggle to be obedient to love
as Jesus loves us
as we surrender our wills to the Spirit
that each day we say
Lord may I love those around me
and those you bring into my path
may I be faithful
in living as you've loved me.
Would you pray with me?
Gracious Lord,
you have so much love for us,
it's overwhelming.
So much love that came
literally in the form of your son
coming to earth and living a life
and dying for us.
And Lord, that's just amazing.
And Father, I pray now
that because of your love for us,
because of your spirit
that's come upon our lives,
we'd open ourselves more to him.
We stay more in tune, more in step with the Spirit.
That we listen to the small voice of your Spirit speaking,
love that person.
And here's how.
Father, we're praying that as we live out these values,
as we live out joy and love,
that we would bring them in a powerful way for worship,
that you would be blessed.
And I pray you'd raise the watermark of love in this church,
that our guests would know that you are here,
because we love.
And Father, I pray that you'd bless each of us
as we attempt to love those
who are different and difficult.
Those are hard things, Lord.
But I pray we'd be open and successful
because we follow and we trust you.
So Lord, as that hymn says,
lay some soul upon our heart
that we might love them today.
And may we be victorious in that experience
because you're doing it through us.
Expand our hearts.
Expand our actions of love
and have your way with us.
We're yours, Lord.
We want to be obedient
and be your children filled with love.
We pray these things in Jesus' name.
Amen.
