I want to share a fun experience my wife and I had last night.
We had the privilege, along with most of the leaders of our high school department,
to chaperone the Fullerton High School formal prom last night, and we had a really fun experience.
So I got a chance, finally, to take my wife to a high school dance.
So what do you think about that? Pretty neat, huh?
We got to go all dressed up and walk around, and we had a great time.
So we're a little weary this morning. Music was a little loud.
I'm getting sensitive to that stuff
and fortunately we were behind the speakers
most of the night. We sure had a great
time. But what a privilege and what an amazing
thing to have students from this
school asking your
youth leaders and myself
to come and to chaperone and to love
and bless them. What a way to make connections
with a school. That's a subtle way of doing
outreach and to meet principals
and just say we're here. We care for your
students. Actually there's about 50
of our students that are from Fullerton
High School coming to this church
at this time and that's just what a great opportunity we have to love them and make
connections. So God's doing a great thing. While something else happened this summer in the realm
of our youth department that really blessed me, I had an interesting experience at junior high
camp when I was there to do something that many of you may have seen. It's called a faith walk
and it's your basic blindfold one person and have somebody else lead them as you walk through
the nature experience. So here I am, trusting my very life and limb to a 12-year-old. And the idea
was to walk throughout the camp and to follow the directions as this person that you cannot see,
you cannot touch, or you can only hear. As they say, turn left, turn right, watch out, step up,
step down. And this student guided me throughout the camp. And I realized that is exactly what
it's like to live by faith. You can't touch them, you can't see them, but you hear their voice
and you're led by faith that they see further than you do. You're trusting in their goodness
that they're not going to make you step off into a ditch. You have to trust. As Christians, friends,
we live by a faith like that, that we are trusting in the goodness of God. Though we can't touch him
see him, we listen for his voice, and we follow his leading. But not everybody can appreciate that
kind of experience. A cynic once said, we don't know who this person is, but they said this,
they said, humanity's first sin was faith. The first virtue was doubt. What do you think about
that. I think what they're describing is actually blind faith, as if our faith is just in faith in
the thin air. But that's not the way it is for those of us who walk by faith. In fact, faith is
built into our world more than we are conscious of. When you came in today, you didn't test the seat
that you sat in to see if it would hold you up.
You just believed that it would.
When you got into your cars this morning,
you didn't wonder how all that machinery works.
You just turn the key and you drive.
You trust and have faith
that somebody put that motor together right,
that Jiffy Lube poured the right amount of fluids in,
et cetera, et cetera.
When you go to the pharmacy,
you don't know what they're making up,
that little concoction.
They titrate that stuff.
All you know is that somebody wrote out in a form that you can't read.
Somebody read that and interpreted it rightly, gave you the right drugs or pills or whatever,
and somehow it's all going to work.
And you trust these different people that you can't see, you can't control,
but you follow in faith that you're going to be all right.
See, faith is built into our world all over the place.
We all have varying degrees of faith.
The question is, not do we have faith, but what is our faith in?
What or whom do we trust in?
Hebrews 11, the scripture, gives us a wonderful working definition of the word faith.
Hebrews 11, verses 1 and 2 say this.
What is faith?
It's the confident assurance that we have hope for what is going to happen.
It is the evidence of things we cannot yet see.
God gave his approval to people in days of old because of their faith.
Faith, if you'll notice from that definition, faith looks forward based on what has happened in the past.
Faith is trust in God for today and tomorrow based on what he did yesterday.
day. So the question becomes, what has God done in your life? Has God saved your soul? Has He given
you peace? Has He given you a ministry? Has He given you power to accomplish His purposes? Has
He answered prayer in your life recently? Has He demonstrated His goodness to you in a tangible
way. When you begin to see how God intersects your life, you have the courage to stand firm in the
face of life and live for God. A gentleman in Leadership Magazine said this, he said,
hope is hearing the melody of the future, but faith is to dance to it. I like that.
We're in a series called Adventure in Worship, and within this larger series, we're in a micro
series looking at four qualities of a victorious life we looked at love we've looked at joy and
now we're looking at faith you see when our lives are full of faith when we're truly walking by
faith and letting the holy spirit control our lives then god produces faithfulness in us
and when we come to worship on sunday when we gather in this room brothers and sisters in christ
when we come to this place full of faith, full of faithfulness, we are a blessing to God and to
others. Remember, as we prepare for worship, God is the audience, right? And as we come full of love
and joy and faith, we honor and bless God with what we give to Him. See, to live a life of faith
is to live expectantly before God.
It's to live with a hope that with God
there's a better future today and tomorrow
because we have God in our lives.
Benjamin Reeves said this,
living expectantly means more than just believing
in church doctrines.
It means more than just trusting my life to God.
living expectantly is faith on tiptoe living expectantly means believing with god that life
is worth living believing that ministry will never become routine for me believing that in god i will
never experience the dullness of the daily i live in the expectancy that in my that in my life god
will do a new thing that will transcend the past. Wouldn't we love to live like that? Living
expectantly that God is alive and is going to do something in my life, in your life, in the life of
the person across the pew from you this morning. Living a life of faith. How do we do that? That
we might be a blessing to God and be a blessing in the world. Here are five characteristics this
morning of what it means to walk by faith and we pull this from mostly chapter 11 in the book of
hebrews number one walking in faith is believing when i don't see it it's believing when i don't
see it remember faith is the evidence of things we cannot yet see you see faith then becomes
visualizing the future in advance it's seeing the future in the present if you think about it every
great achievement began when somebody saw it in advance if you recall this past week
china has now put a man into orbit around the earth 40 years ago the united states hadn't done
that either. Until one day, President John F. Kennedy said, let's put a man on the moon. And
when he said that, the technology had not been invented, but he believed in the resolve of the
American people. He believed in the smarts of the American people. He believed in the focus and the
drive of the American people. And 10 years later, on July 20th, 1969, Neil Armstrong placed his foot
on the dusty surface of Earth's nearest neighbor.
An amazing day.
JFK saw forward as a result of the past.
Sometimes we don't see forward,
but we know that God has been faithful in our past.
It is important to remember what God has done in our past
that we might be looking forward expectantly
and with faith into the future.
And because of that, we press on, believing in God's goodness toward us.
So walking in faith, number one, is believing even if you don't see it,
based on what God has done in the past.
Number two, walking in faith is obeying even when I don't understand it.
Hebrews chapter 11 is known to some as the great hall of faith.
This is the chapter where many of our Old Testament fathers and mothers,
great saints, are lifted up because of their great faith in our God.
But all those saints, some of them Noah, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Moses,
let's be honest, when you study their stories,
they didn't understand at the time what God was up to in their lives.
But on faith they obeyed even when they didn't understand.
Abraham, Hebrews 11.8.
Abraham's a classic example of obeying when he didn't understand.
Somewhere around 75 years old, God asks him to give up all of his security.
Right at the time when he should be collecting social security,
he's asked to give it all up and to journey with God and go somewhere and do something new.
Hebrews 11, 8 and 10, it says,
It was by faith that Abraham obeyed when God called him to leave home
and go to another land that God would give him as his inheritance.
He went without knowing where he was going.
And even when he reached the land God promised him,
he lived there by faith, for he was like a foreigner living in a tent.
And so did Isaac and Jacob, to whom God gave the same promise,
Abraham did this because he was confidently looking forward
to a city with eternal foundations,
a city designed and built by God.
God said, I want you to leave, Abraham.
Pick up everything.
Get ready for the greatest adventure of your life.
And the scary part of it is God gave him no details.
We want the roadmap, don't we?
We want MapQuest.
We want Thomas' Guide.
We want to know, whether on our computer screen or in our hands,
what the journey is going to look like.
And God gave him no details.
Where are we going, Lord?
You've never heard of it.
Well, Lord, how long is it going to take?
You'll find out.
How will I know when I get there?
Trust me, you'll know.
That's scary stuff.
That's scary stuff.
Sometimes God will tell you to do something in your life or in your ministry,
and you're going to think to yourself, there's no way that this is going to work.
God says do it.
And if God says do it, can we not trust him because of his faithfulness to us in the past
that we'll step out in the present and see how amazing it is when God works it out.
See, walking by faith sometimes is obeying, even when we don't understand it.
Number three, walking in faith is giving when I don't have it.
In a few weeks, we're going to be thinking about our commitments before God in terms of our giving.
Hebrews 11.4 says this,
It was by faith that Abel brought a more acceptable offering to God than Cain did.
And God accepted Abel's offering to show that he was a righteous man.
And although Abel is long dead, he still speaks to us because of his faith.
Luke chapter 16, Jesus said,
And if you are untrustworthy about worldly wealth, who will trust you with the true riches of heaven?
We've talked a lot about this, about how giving and faith, they go together.
See, God uses our money and our resources to test our faithfulness to him.
God watches the giving of us Christians.
Proverbs chapter 3, the Bible says,
Honor the Lord with your wealth and with the best part of everything your land produces.
Then he will fill your barns with grain and your vats with overflow, with the finest wine.
See, often the reason we don't have anything to give to God is because of our lifestyle choices.
We want to live how we want to live.
And God and his work become, well, second or third or 41st in our lives.
And as I've said before, God promises to take care of our needs, not necessarily all our wants.
But Matthew 6, Jesus said this,
So don't worry about having enough food or drink or clothing.
Why be like the pagans who are so deeply concerned about these things?
Your heavenly Father already knows all your needs,
and He will give you all you need from the day to day
if you live for Him and make the kingdom of God your primary concern.
So here's the principle.
There's a direct relationship between how I use my money
and how much of God's power I can experience in my life.
How much we give and how much we trust God
influences how much God can bless our lives.
So part of walking by faith
is to give when you don't see it.
It's to give even though you don't yet have it,
trusting that God will meet you there
and then bless your life.
Number four, walking in faith
is persisting when i don't feel like it how do you develop persistence how do you develop the
kind of persistence that keeps you in a position where god has put you when every bone in your
body says i quit i'm done it's over where do you get that kind of persistence you can look at moses
in chapter 11 verse 27 it was by faith that moses left the land of egypt he was not afraid of the
king. Moses kept right on going because he kept his eyes on the one who is invisible. Notice the
key to persistence is in that last phrase, because he kept his eyes on the one who is invisible.
Literally, the text says he kept seeing continually. As we see and seek the invisible,
we can accomplish the impossible the key to persistence is to keep our eyes continually
focused on the lord jesus christ no matter what the circumstance to keep our eyes peeled
on almighty god in the flesh in jesus cory ten boom the survivor of auschwitz the great woman
of faith. She says, if you look at the world, you'll be distressed. If you look within, you'll
be depressed. But if you look at Christ, you'll be at rest. It all depends on where you've got
your eyes. That's true, isn't it? That's true. Walking in faith is persisting sometimes even
we don't feel like it. And finally, walking in faith is trusting even if I don't get it.
You see, walking in faith does not necessarily exempt you from problems, right? We Christians,
we have problems like everybody else. We have heartaches and struggles and problems in our
bodies and our friendships and our relations. We have problems all over the place just like
everybody else, but we have a power source to draw upon that we might be persistent and walk
with confidence even the face of difficult things. You'll notice this large section from Hebrews 11
verses 33 to 40. It says, by faith these people overthrew kingdoms, ruled with justice, and received
what God had promised them. They shut the mouths of lions, quenched the flames of fire, and escaped
death by the edge of the sword. Their weakness was turned to strength. They became strong in battle
and put whole armies to flight. Women received their loved ones back again from death. Boy,
that's victorious talk, isn't it? But read on. But others trusted God and were tortured,
preferring to die rather than turn from God and be free. They placed their hope in the resurrection
to a better life. Some were mocked and their backs were cut open with whips. Others were
chained in dungeons. Some died by stoning and some were sawed in half. Others were killed with the
sword. Some went about in skins of sheep and goats, hungry and oppressed and mistreated. They were too
good for this world. They wandered over deserts and mountains, hiding in caves and holes in the
ground. All of these people we have mentioned received God's approval because of their faith.
Yet none of them received all that God had promised, for God had far better things in mind
for us that we would also benefit them, for they can't receive the prize at the end of the race
until we finish the race. You see, friends, it's easy to trust in God in life and ministry when
When things are going great, when all the kids are healthy, wealthy, and wise,
and everybody's happy, and everything's wonderful,
it's really easy to say, praise the Lord, all is great, God is good.
Real faith gets developed in the valleys.
When situations look impossible, when the tide is turned against you,
when you're tempted to say, why is this happening to me?
That's when our faith is really grown.
As we walk in faith, we're never promised a rose garden.
We're never promised that all will go easily and smoothly.
We're promised that God will be with us wherever.
Faith is trusting that even if you don't understand why things are happening,
why pressures are pushing in, God has a better idea, a far better idea.
See, in Abraham's case, it took God five more years to reveal that better idea,
but then he did.
And I suspect that in Abraham's life, in those five years before the promise
and the fulfillment, that there were some real questions.
God, where are we?
Why are we out here?
What are you doing?
What's going on?
Why me?
Faith is trusting, though, even if you don't get it.
And the God who says he will be faithful to us.
D. Martin Lloyd-Jones said this,
faith is a refusal to panic.
Isn't that great?
When life is crashing in, you just want to scream,
faith says, God, you are still here in the midst.
I refuse to panic.
I will trust you even though I don't get it.
Are you walking by faith?
Are you believing even when you don't see it?
Are you obeying even when you don't understand it?
Are you giving even when you don't have it yet?
Are you persisting when you don't feel like it?
Are you trusting if you don't quite get it?
How much active faith do you bring on Sundays?
When you come to worship, how much faithfulness and faith in our God do you bring
that you might offer that up as an offering unto God?
How much faith do you live out
the rest of the days of the week?
A gentleman once said,
faith is caught.
That's the worship part.
But faith is also acting on the will of God
and that's the personal part.
It's for us to live out.
As you're thinking about faith
and whom we have our faith,
I'd like to share this cute story in conclusion.
Many of you remember these times,
both in the first and second world wars
when men and women
who served their country would go off
many times not just for months
but for years
shipped off to the Pacific
or the Atlantic theater
and they'd be gone
for four or five years at a time
we're told there was a good marine
that was sent off
to part of the Pacific and he left
his wife was expecting a child
and he left and was gone
four years
and the child was born and that child was a beautiful little girl and because of so much
love and faith in that home the mother would never let that little girl forget her father
she'd never seen him never met him but they would never forget their father her father
mom always talked about father's love and care and how someday father would come
little girl was four years old just playing out in the front yard and a strange man came to the
gate and she looked up and she looked into his eyes and saw her own eyes and she exclaimed daddy
you're for real daddy you're for real and they embraced christians our heavenly father
is real our faith in this god that we don't yet see or we can't touch is not a blind faith it's
a faith in a heavenly father that is real and is so close to you closer than you would even know
He loves you.
He wants the best for you.
Would you pray with me?
Father, thank you that you are real,
that you're there for us,
that we've seen you act in our lives.
And may that spur us on and encourage us
to be more full of faith each and every day.
Whether we understand all that's happening around us,
whether we're stretched to see things we don't see,
to give when we don't have it,
to live a life of faithfulness
when we're just plumb tired.
we thank you that you have given us your spirit that you motivate us and you are blessing us that
you are filling us with yourself and we can live faithfully for you and father i pray that fullerton
first baptist church would be a kind of church that whether we're members or guests whoever
comes in we just sense a high watermark of love and joy and faith in this place because we know
you and we trust you and we love you and we worship you may that be our experience
as we walk daily in this life of faith so come holy spirit encourage us
