Today, and I rejoice. We have good music in this church, don't we? I think you've been dulled by all the debris that's coming in around us, and I thought the moon was coming up, and I looked, and it was the sun. Nice, bright orange today, and that might look lovely, but what we're involved in over there is far from lovely.
and minds that start something like that I can't figure out at all. Today I come this morning
with a gift. Now this will be and it is this will be our last of the sub-series
on those qualities that we need to have in our life for victorious living and it is a gift
that is dynamic, it's real, and it will last forever. Don't you wish a car would? Last forever.
The word used often is hope. We hear it used in mottos. People talk about it all the time.
Hope springs eternal as if it was a natural phenomenon. You know, it just springs right up.
even the billboards say, keep hope alive. Where there's life, there's hope, and where there's
hope, there's life, and I don't mean Bob Hope. We use the words for many things. I've used it
during these last few weeks. I said, you know, I really hope the Cubs and the Boston Red Sox
will get into the playoffs, and they did, and then I said, I hope the Cubs and the Red Sox
will win and be in the World Series, and the Cubs were taken care of. The Yankees came along and
finished off the Red Sox, and I didn't really care who won the series. Well, not quite. I have a big
grin on my face, six games, and the Florida Marlins were successful. That was a fulfillment
of a hope, but that's short-lived. Then there's that hope that comes out of sheer enthusiasm and
confidence. A man commuted into town on the train, commuter train. He got off to come home, and he was
walking by the park he normally walked by and there was a ball field there and he was walking
out there where the outfield is there was a fence there and there was a little boy standing out
there it was time out and so he was there and so the man said well how you doing son and he said
well well I'm doing I'm doing all right and he said not bad we're doing fine the man said who's
ahead, and he said, they are, and he said, what's the score, and he said, 27 to nothing, and the man said,
that's terrible, you must be terribly disappointed, he said, no, that's all right, we haven't even had
our ups yet, now that's enthusiasm, and that's confidence, and there is hope, he didn't stay long
enough to see it would work. Now I want to talk about serious hope, real hope. Hope is to our
spirits what oxygen is to our lungs. We do not get oxygen into our lungs and we die. Your spirit dies
when hope dies. They may not bury you for a while, but without hope, you're dead. I want to talk about
that for a moment. A week ago, this past Saturday, there was another article in the Orange County
Restaurant Register about a new worry in Afghanistan, and that worry is about AIDS.
The story was about an Afghan woman who had no skills. She was not educated. She had come under
the rule of the Taliban, and she was a thing. Things don't get educated. And then her husband
was killed after a rocket fell in a Kabul marketplace, and it wasn't a rocket from us.
Killed her husband, and she had five children to feed. She couldn't get an ordinary job
because she was illiterate and women were prohibited from being educated. In order to feed
her five children, she turned to prostitution. She was diagnosed with HIV and she said,
I don't even know what HIV is. The women who go into prostitution don't worry about their life.
they don't have any hope about their lives, and this woman then said, if we die, what does it
matter, and if I live, what does it all mean? Here was a woman embedded, embedded in despair,
and not a single ounce of hope available. Now, we don't have to go to Afghanistan to see that
lived out. We see it around us, sometimes quietly, sometimes largely, but there are people
that live without hope. So today, I want us to look at real hope. That's the gift I have today
that I have brought this morning, and we find it in 1 Peter 1, 3 to 4. He writes, and by the way,
Peter is known as the apostle of hope.
It says, praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ.
In his great mercy, he has given us new birth into a living hope,
a hope that lasts forever through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead
and into an inheritance that can never perish, spoil, or fade,
kept in heaven for you but operating in our lives now if we take that gift that's why i said i have
a gift for you this morning only if you take it we know that we live in a broken world a hurting
world a troubling world and a desperate world if you don't believe me just read the paper they tell
all about that stuff. Peter lived in this kind of world too, and so we wrote to a people who
were involved in great persecution and hostility. Peter is known as, as I said, as the apostle of
hope, and this letter is a letter of radiant hope and triumphant even in the middle of suffering.
This is what we need in our world today because many of around us have no hope. Let me tell you
about a young lady. We were pastoring in Pasadena, right across from the Pasadena City College.
We were on that corner there. There was a bus stop. I had gotten there early, just a little
after seven. That was not my usual time to get there. I had a lot of things to do, and I went
to my study. All the doors were locked, and I just got started, and there was a knock on the study
door. I couldn't figure that one out, because everything was locked, so I opened the door, and
in she walked. Behind her was the smiling face of the custodian, Merlin, and he said,
Pastor, this young lady just got off the bus, and she wants to talk to the reverend,
and I knew you would want to talk with her. My eyes and my facial expression did not communicate
that kind of joy to Merlin, but I turned around, and she was standing there, and I asked, told her
she could please be seated, and I said, do you want to talk? She said yes. I looked at her.
She had a cocktail dress on. It was torn in the hem. It was torn up here around the neck a little.
whatever makeup she had was now a disaster and most of it was gone. There were little rivulets
that had left their traces on her face and I knew she had been in the midst of tears somewhere
in that night. It was apparent that she had been up all night and she told me her story.
Pregnant at 15, gave birth to a child. Right after that she was pregnant again,
not the same father
both of them just moved on
and there she was
living with her mother in Texas
and just shortly after
that baby was born
maybe 8 or 9 months
her mother came home
because her mother was working
and she came in
not finding her daughter
but finding a note
and it said I can't take this anymore
I am leaving
that was it
and she left. That was about a year and a half to two years from the time she left and the time I
talked, and she had never contacted her mother. She came to L.A. and the Hollywood area, I suppose,
full of some kind of hope, but that spiraled downward real quickly, and she went from one
partner to another partner, and it was one of those sordid, sordid tales of a lost soul.
And the night before I talked with her, she had been taken to a party with obvious expectations,
and it went on and on, and finally someone said to her, you put out or you get out,
and she left. She had a little bag that she had carried there. It wasn't much bigger than to take
a change of clothes, and she left, and the shoes she had on were not walking shoes,
those spiked heels. She walked. I don't know when she left in the morning, but she walked for long
ways. She walked long enough east of Pasadena to catch that first bus that broke in the morning,
and she got to our place just about almost when I got there, and she saw the sign. She saw the
church. She didn't know where she was going. She just knew she had to get out of there,
and she saw Merlin and she asked to see me and she told me her story and then she looked at me
and she looked at me through some of the oldest eyes I had ever seen in my life and it struck me
like a hammer because our daughter Deanne was just the age of this 18-19 year old girl. She
looked at me and said, is there any hope? Nineteen years old. Is there any hope? And so we talked and
we shared. And in the midst of that, God seemed to move and work. And I told her about the only hope
that would work in her life. And we talked about that, talked about the timing, talked about isn't
a time to let go and let God do a work in your life. And we talked about hope. We had prayer.
She made a confession. And then when that was over, she looked up at me with tears in her eyes
and she said, can I call my mom? Hadn't contacted her mother in all this time. I said, be my guest.
and she called and I heard a voice that answered the phone and we'll call this young lady Alice
and Alice said mom this is Alice first clue that she was even in existence I don't know what the
mother said but I heard the shout and the exultation and then she said mom can I come home
I want to be your daughter and I want to be a mother we went and got something to eat we both
went down to the bus stop she went and changed from that cocktail dress into some little bit
clothes that she had there, got a ticket to Texas, and I stayed with her until the bus came.
Then I watched that bus as it pulled out, and I saw that young woman look out the bus, finally
spotted me, and I saw her lips moving to say, thank you so much, and I waited until the bus
was out of sight. All the stuff that was busy business for me was gone by the way because of
a woman who had found hope, real honest to goodness hope, and we praise God for it. Unfortunately,
there are some false hopes. We hear them over the telemarketers. We see them in the paper,
in the advertisements you even see them in great big billboards I was driving down from Bakersfield
when I was a young pastor and I'd been asked to serve on the state convention board because I was
representing youth I was a minister of youth and so I was at going to the first meeting at Fifth
and Olive in downtown Los Angeles and I'd never been there before and I got the map and I knew
where I was going now and I looked for that off-ramp and I made the off-ramp and the turn
to go down to Olive Drive and Olive Street,
and there in front of me was a building and a sign.
The sign was not on a billboard.
It was painted right on that red brick building.
It was there forever.
People that were on the freeway could see it,
but I could see it straight on when I made the turn.
The sign said,
borrow enough to get you completely out of debt.
duh it took me a few turns of the wheel to get control again as the truth of that hit me
bar enough to get completely out of debt i thought about when i knew we were going to be doing this
and preaching in this series thought about hope i came up with three effects of a living hope
three of them one with hope as your base you face life differently I didn't say everything
that bothered you was removed I said with hope in Jesus Christ a living hope because he gave that to
us the gift as your base you face life differently you look at it differently I'll explain that in a
moment. Secondly, hope is energizing. There is an energy that comes from hope, and I'll tell you
what that does. Hope obliterates despair. They can't live in the same room. Hope comes into your
life, and it obliterates, does away with despair. He doesn't do away with the circumstances. He does
away with despair. It obliterates it because our hope is based upon what God has done,
not on our own efforts or wishful thinking. And three, and I think this is almost the most
important, with a living hope, we cease to be a victim and we become a victor. Think of Paul and
Silas in jail? They were victims? I don't think so. They were in jail. That was a fact. They sang
the praise hymns, and they came out a victor along with the jailer and along with the family
and the children. They came out of that jail, the jail of their own doing with the jailer and the
family, but they were not victims. They were victors. Now, how is that hope lived out?
I thought you'd never ask. I want to tell you about my father. My father was an oil worker,
came from Texas, got here, and way out in the boonies around Taft, his father was in the oil
fields. He went to the eighth grade, went to work in the oil fields. Part of that was to help his
brother get through college. And that's all he did. And he didn't mind it at all. In fact,
he liked it very much. He was in a well-pulling crew at that time, and those were the ones that
repair the wells. And maybe you've seen them driving up and down Bastion Cherry with some
rods sticking up in the air, and they were fixing the pumping wells. He was in that truck on the
back with another man, and the back was full of tools. A drunk driver came down that Pozo Creek
Road, which was basically dirt and a little asphalt, pushed the truck over to the side and
the shoulders. The truck rolled, and all those tools, all those boxes in the back rolled with
my father and the other man, and at that moment in time, he became a paraplegic at 41, desperately
ill. Broken bones, I don't want to even name them. He didn't gain real consciousness for 45 days,
six months in the hospital. Now, that would put anyone down the trail of despair. He could no
longer do, and what he liked to do was work. But you know what he said? He said, God saved my life
for a purpose, and I'm going to find out what that purpose is. Went back to school,
got a high school diploma, did some things, employed by the Shell Oil Company for life,
as long as he could do it, and he was a living testimony of hope. There was not a despair bone
in his body. He loved the Lord, and he loved people, and what could have been a disaster
for him, became a means by which his own faith was strengthened, and he was that person of hope.
He lived with us. We know about that. That's how those things work. He faced life differently.
Hope was energizing for him, and with a living hope, my father ceased to be a victim. He was
the victor as he walked out of a doctor's office on his crutches seven years after the doctor said
you will never walk again and you will be in a wheelchair for the rest of your life and my father
said no I won't and he said if you walk I'll quit my practice he walked in seven years later and the
first words he said was doc when are you going to resign that was the kind of person with a hope
There may come times when you become the instrument
through which the living hope is given to another.
I had an experience some time ago.
I and another minister was asked to be on a program called Let's Talk.
Those were in the days when the radio stations
would donate free time to charitable organizations
and that kind of thing.
And so this station decided to put all they had
into one three-hour block once a week.
And the station was KRLA.
Now, KRLA now is a talk show.
Do you know what KRLA was at that time in the 60s?
It was a hard rock and roll, beat-em-up kind of music
with a shouting, almost insane disc jockey.
and he was on there till nine o'clock and after nine guess who showed up two baptist preachers
on that station and you hear that music and he shouted as he would often listen to me on and
he gave all that stuff and with another roar and and that music and then some soft music came on
and then these two preachers on let's talk there was no screener we just took it right cold
and we were there from nine to midnight.
I preached morning service, evening service,
got over there in time to take off my coat and get going.
About in the middle of that, on one evening,
there was a phone call.
Usually we ask for names and we did
and the voice was kind of a younger woman
and she said, I'm not going to give you my name.
I said, well, what area do you live in?
She said, I'm not going to tell you that either.
and I said all right and we talked for a few moments and then she said what I decided to do
was I wanted to call this program and I wanted to tell someone and she told a tale of despairing
things and then she said I just wanted to tell you that and when I hang up I'm going to kill
myself. We didn't have an address. We had no way to trace the call, but something in both of us knew
that we had to do whatever we could, and that couldn't be carried on publicly over the radio
because it was, believe it or not, one of the popular programs on Sunday night.
That's not saying much because it's primetime TV, but it was, and so I took it. The engineer was
aware of that, he motioned to me for a room over at the side, and then switched the call. I never
made it back to Let's Talk, because I was doing all the talking and praying that I possibly could,
and I told her about it. I told her about hope, and finally, I felt the urging of the Lord to be
rather authoritative in her life, and I said, I'm going to tell you, you can't do this. You can't do
this. And I tried to explain the reasons. And I said, you can't now. You just can't. And I'm
telling you, you can't. Then I said, and if you don't, I want you to come to my church during the
week. And I gave her the address. I gave her the phone number. And I said, I want you to tell me
about things. About two weeks later, Mildred buzzed me in the study, and she said, Pastor,
there's a young woman down here that said that you said that she was to come in and talk with you.
I said, I'll be right down, and I went down and looked at a lovely woman who didn't seem to have
despair in her face. We went up and talked, and she said, you know, obviously, she said,
I didn't do, I did what you told me to do. I didn't kill myself, and I found hope. That's a
short story of a long conversation, and I was in touch a couple, three times after that with her,
and her life had been changed and we're very, very thankful for that. There are times
when the tough circumstances and sufferings that we face become the instrument through which we
find the hope that sees us through. There are some people right now, right now struggling with
that very thing as they face burning embers out there that was their home. Somewhere along the
line there has to be some hope that can come almost born out of this kind of experience
and many are facing that even now romans 5 1 to 5 has something very wonderful for us to
to hear this morning romans 5 1 to 5 therefore since we have been justified through faith
we have peace with god through our lord jesus christ through whom we have gained access
to faith into this grace in which we now stand, and we rejoice in the hope of the glory of God.
Not only so, but we also rejoice in our sufferings because we know that sufferings
produces perseverance. Perseverance, character, and character, hope. And hope does not disappoint
us because God has poured out his love into our hearts by the Holy Spirit whom he has given us
and we can say amen say it again amen I didn't hear you amen now let us look at the living hope
that God has given us one it is because God's abundant mercy not according to our merit
has this living hope come into the world.
The resurrection and all that it meant to human life and history
has been no myth or fable.
It was a free act of the merciful God
who did for us what we could not do for ourselves.
It was a sheer gift.
That's why I said this morning, I have a gift for you.
Two, this hope is living and active reality.
it produces the life of hope in which the eternal power of God is at work the living hope is anchored
in the one who is alive now and present with us now here in his spirit it is not the product of
man's wishes sucked out of our thumb nor is it set upon passing and perishing hopes of the time-bound
world. It is from God. Three, this living hope, this life of radical hopefulness is a new creation
and can be compared only to the birth of a new life. All of this means we are to be born twice.
We who have been Christians for a while know what that means, once physically and again spiritually.
God's desire is that we are to be born again into the kingdom of light.
We are no longer in the kingdom of darkness.
We are transported because of what he has done, translated over into the kingdom of light.
And this new birth into the new life in Christ is crucial, decisive, and miraculous.
We are born anew into a living hope.
And fourth, this resurrection means and is based upon the resurrection of Jesus Christ.
Simply said, the resurrection means that Jesus was raised from the dead
and that all he said and did and was came alive by a creative act of God.
This is what we celebrate every Lord's Day, every Sunday.
Today, Easter means Jesus Christ lives now.
Now listen to these words.
On that day we now call Good Friday.
To the disciples, it was the blackest day of history.
They were longing and looking for a Messiah, and then came Jesus.
He called them and invited them.
They followed him for three years.
he was going to be the Messiah. And instead of being a good Friday, it became the blackest day
of history. Their hopes and dreams for their Lord were shattered and smashed and battered,
and they saw it as he hung on the cross. Hope was gone. Things happen when hope is gone.
they were terrified
they ran and they ran for their lives
hiding behind locked doors in the upper room
but the others
the others that were involved in the crucifixion
well they all went home
the leaders
the military
the Sanhedrin
convinced that he was dead
satisfied that they were done with him
done with this great disturber
of their souls, confident that it was finished. And they all went home and went to bed. But God,
God stayed up all night working on the resurrection, working on the resurrection.
And that made the difference. Christ had taken the cross and using it as a battering ram,
had driven the end out of the sepulcher to let in the light of an eternal day. The grave
has become a gateway. Death is now a door. The tombstone has become a milestone and the graveyard
has become a brighter place festooned all about with hope. Christ the divine Samson has picked up
the iron gates of impossibility and has carried them off. What a difference the resurrection
makes. What a difference in the life of Mary and the other women and the disciples and the
believers. What a difference in the history of the world. What a difference in our lives. We are here
as the body of Jesus Christ because of His resurrection. And now, and what a difference
it's made, and now we have a living hope, and that's my gift to you today. We could stop right
here on these compelling statements and go home sensing wonder and awe, but I want to take one
more step with you today. There is a responsibility to share our hope with those that need it.
verse Peter 3, 13 to 15, says it very succinctly. Who's going to harm you if you are eager to do
good? But even if you should suffer for what is right, you are blessed. Do not fear what they
fear. Do not be frightened. But in your heart, acknowledge Christ as the Holy Lord, and always
be prepared to give an answer to everyone who asks you the reason for the hope that you have.
And the door opens, and you become a witness to the living hope because of Jesus. Let us pray.
Father, we thank you for this time, and we pray that lives can be stirred to be giving a reasonable
account of the faith that is within them in their own common words, through their own common
witness. No one can deny a witness. I pray for those that would like to be able to give a
reasonable account of the faith that is within you. If there are those today that have, because
of listening now and have felt, yes, I do want to be able. I want to give an answer of my witness
about the living hope to other people, neighbors, whoever they might be. If some of you would like
to do that, just raise your hand for a moment. If you're moved in any way to do that, raise your
hands. I see you. Raise them again. Come on. If there are others, we'll wait. All right. So, Father,
we pray for those that raise their hands
we pray for this congregation
that we can begin to give
a reasonable witness
to the faith and the hope
that is in us and we pray it
in the name of Jesus Christ
Amen
we're going to stand and we're going to sing
we are because he lives
because he lives
