We hope you'll come back and visit us again and share the Lord with us.
I'm just so glad to be a part of family this morning.
How many of you remember a show called Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous?
Do you remember this show?
Is it still on?
It is?
Yeah?
Man, never quits.
Somewhere in the world it's still on.
If you recall, there was a gentleman by the name of Robin Leach, I recall, with a very funny voice.
Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous, something like that.
It's the best impersonation I could come up with.
And essentially, this show was showing a certain class of people
and how they live, where they go, what they buy, what they do.
And we just, as consumers, desire to sort of live in a fantasy world for a half an hour
to see this lifestyle that perhaps was just out of our reach.
Lifestyle.
We're fascinated by others' lifestyle.
What about our own?
What is a lifestyle?
A lifestyle is a person's pattern of living,
expressed in their activities, their interests, their opinions.
And I ask you this morning, what kind of a lifestyle do you have?
You may not relate to the lifestyles of the rich and famous.
I certainly do not.
I don't think many of us sail on our 50-foot yachts.
I don't know that any of us has that.
If you do, I'd like to go with you, but I don't think that's where we're at.
But you might consider your lifestyle to be perhaps characterized by your calling in life, by your profession.
You might see yourself as a student, and my lifestyle is a student lifestyle, or a soccer mom lifestyle.
Some of you have children with the soccer mom, soccer dad lifestyle.
I fit into part of that.
It's a crazy lifestyle.
You might define it by a hobby or a sport that you are passionate about.
You might have a martial arts lifestyle, or a gardening lifestyle, or surfing, or skiing,
or whatever it is.
You define kind of the whole way you do life by that activity.
You might even characterize it by your faith.
You might say, I have a Christian lifestyle.
Have you ever thought of your lifestyle, though, as one of worship?
Do you see yourselves as, I live a lifestyle of worship?
It may not win you a spot on television.
Robin Leach may not call you to investigate your worship lifestyle.
But you know what?
It's far better and far more important than the lifestyles of the rich and famous.
Because a lifestyle of worship is a blessing to God and to others.
Is the worship lifestyle, is it only for those who sing and play music and lead worship up here?
Or can we all characterize our lives and our lifestyles as one of worship?
The Apostle Paul said this in Colossians chapter 3.
He said,
giving thanks to God the Father through him.
Let the word of Christ, it says, dwell in you richly.
Teach and then sing.
And notice what he says,
and then whatever you do, do it in the name of the Lord Jesus.
He's talking about a lifestyle.
Paul is talking about whatever you do, do it to honor Christ.
That's a lifestyle of worship.
He's challenging us to do this, to work unto the Lord.
To study unto the Lord.
To play unto the Lord.
Give unto the Lord.
Raise your kids and your grandchildren unto the Lord.
Talk with your friends unto the Lord.
Run errands unto the Lord.
You get the idea.
All that we do, do it unto Him.
He's talking about a lifestyle of worship.
As we come to the end of this worship series, the past three months,
we've been looking at what it means to be living a lifestyle of worship
and how to really let God be the audience of our worship corporately here
and also of our entire life.
For we are out to please the Lord.
He is the audience.
It's been said He's the audience of one.
We work and do everything to please our Lord.
One of the great creeds in the early church in 1647 called the Westminster Shorter Catechism
asked this question, what is the chief end of man or human beings?
And the answer, to glorify God and to enjoy him forever.
It's worship as a lifestyle.
We don't often live this way though.
You've heard us say it here before from Gordon Dahl's great insightful comment.
I'll say it again.
Most middle class Americans tend to what?
They worship their work.
They work at their play.
And they play at their worship.
I'd like to challenge us to flip that around and think of it as instead,
how about we tend to worship through our work?
What if we were to work through our play?
What we love to do, we actually do that for a living.
And what if we were to play through our worship?
It's a whole different way of doing life, wouldn't it?
See, our meanings and our values get distorted.
It's often been said our lifestyles resemble a cast of characters looking for a plot.
We've got to get our priorities right.
We need to put God back on the throne.
We need to worship God first and foremost in our lives, in everything that we do.
because from out of worship comes everything else.
And that's been the theme we've been trying to work at throughout this series
is that out of our obedience, out of our worship unto God,
giving Him everything, all the rest of life comes out.
We evangelize and share Christ to the lost
that they might be saved by the blood of Jesus,
that they might glorify God with their lives
and join us as we glorify God.
We disciple other believers that they might know what actions, attitudes, and words bring glory to God.
We visit the sick, the prisoners, the despondent.
We help the orphans, the addicted, the poor, because all these things glorify God.
Everything we do as a church is to glorify God.
It's to point to Him, to give Him praise.
Everything we do as Christians is to give God glory and praise.
Hebrews chapter 13 gives us this great challenge.
Through him, let us continually offer a sacrifice of praise to God.
That is the fruit of lips that confess his name.
Do not neglect to do good and to share what you have, for such sacrifices are pleasing to God.
The writer of Hebrews is challenging us to praise God with our lips
and to praise God with our actions.
In essence, to live a lifestyle of worship.
All of life becomes worship.
Now, biblical praise we see here.
A sacrifice of praise unto God.
A biblical praise is a sacrifice.
It's something we owe and desire to offer to God
because of who He is and what He has done.
And it should cost us something.
It should cost us.
There's a true story of a woman who called the consumer helpline at the Butterball Turkey Company.
Just before Thanksgiving, she called the hotline and said,
By the way, is it safe to eat a turkey that's been in the freezer for 25 years?
And the man indicated, well, if it hasn't been thawed ever, it shouldn't present any danger.
but he said, but I can't imagine that after 25 years in the freezer
that the turkey would have much taste.
Well, she said, that's what I thought anyway.
I'm going to donate it to the church.
That's cold, isn't it?
But isn't that how it goes sometimes?
We give to God the leftovers in our lives.
We donate things to the church that we wouldn't be caught dead sitting in any longer, right?
Let me tell you this, youth groups are famous for absorbing all the things you would never have in your living room any longer.
So we'll give it to Jesus and let the kids sit on it.
But let me say, friends, not in this church.
We're here about excellence.
We're going to give God our first fruits, not the dregs of our leftovers.
And I'm proud to say that we're turning a great corner there.
But you know, we do the same thing with our offerings too.
We give to God from our financial leftovers.
We give to God from the leftovers of our lives.
We give Him the last fruits instead of the first.
We don't sacrifice much for God.
Offerings that don't cost us aren't sacrifices.
See, in the Old Testament, the people were to give God sacrifices and offerings
from their crops and their livestock, the first fruits,
to say thank you for your provision in my life.
Thank you for your goodness.
They also sacrificed animals to communicate the seriousness of our sin before God.
And it was a bloody mess.
And when you're slaying that animal, you realize this issue of sin before God is a serious deal.
Because there has to be a death that there might be life.
In the New Testament, Jesus becomes that one sacrifice for us.
And now our sacrifices are no longer animals on the altar.
Our sacrifices come in the form of our lives as an expression of thanksgiving for what God has done for us.
And the author of Hebrews says we are to offer to God a sacrifice of praise and to do good
and share what we have as sacrifices unto God.
And these sacrifices should cost us something, for it costs Jesus his very life for our lives.
And so I want to give you this morning four examples of what this looks like in practice.
To give a sacrifice of praise, to give a sacrifice of our lives as lives of worship unto God.
The first is, we worship as a lifestyle in our person, in our person.
Someone has said, when one truly gives himself or herself to the Lord, all other giving becomes
easy. Because you've already
settled the first issue.
Who do you belong to?
It's to God. Romans chapter
12 in the wonderful Phillips translation
says this.
With eyes wide open to the mercies
of God, I beg
you, my brothers, as an act
of intelligent worship,
to give your bodies
as a living sacrifice,
consecrated to Him
and acceptable by Him.
Don't let the world around you
squeeze you into its own mold but let god remold your minds from within so that you may prove in
practice the plan of god for you is good meets all his demands and moves toward the goal of true
maturity great verse offer your bodies as living sacrifice your body is the essence of what you've
got here on this earth. And from your body come the rest of our acts of worship. When we give our
body, we're giving it all unto the Lord. For our entire life is to glorify God. If everything we do
and are and think and feel is to glorify Him, then we've got to give our whole self, our minds,
our wills, our bodies, everything. And that's what He asks. So we give God first in our person.
We also give him in our purse.
For many, giving God our bodies and minds and wills, that seems easy,
but our purses, our wallets, now that's a different matter.
2 Corinthians, he says this.
Paul writes, chapter 8,
We want you to know, brothers and sisters,
about the grace of God that has been granted to the churches of Macedonia.
For during a severe ordeal of affliction,
their abundant joy and their extreme poverty
have overflowed in a wealth of generosity on their part.
For, as I can testify, they voluntarily gave according to their means
and even beyond their means,
begging us earnestly for the privilege of sharing in this ministry to the saints.
And this, not merely as we expected,
they gave themselves first to the Lord.
If God doesn't have your wallet or your purse,
He doesn't really have you.
because our purse and our wallet represents what we really believe and hold on to.
It really shows who's first in our lives.
And if we're going to give God a lifestyle of worship and give him everything we are,
we need to give him our purse and say, Lord, it's yours first.
And thank you for what you've given to me.
As I said at the end of our service today,
we're going to take our offerings this morning and our pledges for next year's giving.
And I trust that you have spent some time before God
I'm really trusting.
You spent some time saying, Lord, what would you have me give
that I might stretch and honor you and trust you
and make all of my giving part of a lifestyle of worship?
Lord, I want to acknowledge your goodness.
I want to put you first.
So I give you right off the top my firstfruits
as an act of thanksgiving, an act of sacrifice, an act of worship.
And I would hope that last week's presentation might challenge you
if you're just getting started in giving,
that this challenge to strive to tithe by fives,
I pray that that would really become real in your life
and that God will take us to great heights as we give.
And I'd love to see our church be like the Corinthian church
where Paul says, you know what?
You've given too much.
It's okay.
Stop.
Wouldn't that be fun?
Here's your refund check on your giving.
I would love to cut checks back to you
because it was just too much.
Wouldn't that be a great goal?
A lifestyle of worship, friends, means that God has our purse.
We give him our bodies, and now we give him our purse and our wallets.
Number three, we give him our praise.
See, genuine, acceptable, God-honoring praise is praise that first begins with a grateful heart
and moves to our lips that are full of joy.
I find it interesting that Jesus, in his earthly ministry, was always telling people,
Now, after you've been healed, don't tell anybody because the mobs he knew would come.
He was always telling people, don't tell anybody what just happened.
And yet, they were so grateful, so thankful for his movement in their lives, they couldn't help it.
And they leaked it out.
I'm not supposed to tell you, but that man healed me.
He set me free.
And the mobs, they came.
In the church today, though, we stand up here and say,
please say something about Jesus to the world.
We've got it backwards sometimes.
But friends, I think part of it is because we forget,
we forget what God has done.
Because really grateful hearts cannot be silenced.
Really grateful hearts just explode with gratitude.
And sometimes we have to go back and remember what it was like
before God saved us, what it was like
to live in sin and muck
and all of those things and to say, Lord, thank you
that you delivered me from that
and all the good things
in my life. And when we reflect
on those and make that list,
you can't silence
grateful hearts
and lips.
It's my challenge to us that we be a people of
praise because we remember again
what God has done.
Jesus said, for out of the abundance
of the heart, the mouth speaks.
And a lifestyle of worship
means that we're continually
giving God praise for what
he has done and we remember
over and over what he's done in our lives.
So we give him our praise.
And finally, a lifestyle
of praise. We give God
a sacrifice
of performance.
Of doing good.
Of what we do in the world.
Ephesians chapter 8.
A famous verse for many of you.
for by grace you have been saved through faith and this not of your own doing it's the gift of god
not the result of work so that no one may boast for we are what he has made us created in christ
jesus for good works which god prepared beforehand to be our way of life saved us
to bring the kingdom, saved us to do works
he's preordained before the foundation of the earth, saved us that we
might live a life of gratitude in our lips and in our being
and our doing. It starts in a grateful heart,
vocalized in singing on Sunday morning,
in our own private worship times of offering praise to God.
And its ultimate end, though, is not just in praise, it moves
into actions that glorify the Lord.
A lifestyle of worship begins with a word of thanks to God
at the beginning of the day
and proceeds to a demeanor of holiness in our jobs.
Pleasing praise unto God begins with a robust singing here on Sunday
and then attention to word and prayer on a daily basis
and then it sets off and flowers into a life of love and good works
beyond the doors of this church.
we don't keep it in here
we spread it around
because we are living a lifestyle
of praise
so I conclude this morning
with these thoughts
how is your praise doing
is your lifestyle
a lifestyle of praise
is your lifestyle
a lifestyle of worship
and if you're growing in that experience
will you dedicate yourself in this coming year
that more and more of your life
would be lived unto God for His glory.
You might ask, does your offering before God
through yourself, does it cost you anything?
Does it cost you anything?
The next question is, what is your praise doing?
Is it time to find a ministry that needs you,
that needs your gifts, that desires to work with you
as you plug in and live a lifestyle of praise unto God
with the spiritual gifts He's given you?
There is nothing insignificant in the kingdom of God.
Everything that is done for his glory is important.
And he's gifted all of you for something or many things that are special unto God.
And it's my hope and prayer that you will discover those.
And that you'll make your lifestyle, your actions, a lifestyle of praise and worship unto God.
and it's my hope and prayer
that this church become a place
where everybody's involved in ministry
everybody's involved in giving their total being unto God
and the mercy rises so high
it spills over outside
and the community can't get enough
of what God is doing here
but we have to be willing to give ourselves unto God
and there might be some things
we're holding back in our lives
some closets and places we don't want the Spirit to go
that hold us back.
My prayer for you is the Spirit would come
and gently draw those things out
that you might repent and give them away
unto Him, for they went to the cross.
That you might be free,
free to live all of your life
unto worship unto our Lord.
And as a way for us to symbolize that this morning,
we're going to take our offering
in a little bit different way.
For this offering now this morning
is going to be a total body kinesthetic experience
to symbolize your giving, your total being unto God
as a lifestyle of worship.
And so at this time, as we're going to sing a couple songs,
we're going to have our ushers stand at the back
and they're going to move forward.
And we're going to dismiss you row by row.
And we just ask that you come to the center aisle.
