Are you ready to dig into the Word of the Lord today? I hope so.
We're in a series on kingdom living and kind of asking the question,
what does an authentic Christian look like in different areas of our lives?
It's one thing to come and worship and sing and do things here, but what happens when we leave?
What difference does Christ make in the different dimensions of our lives outside these walls?
And so we've been looking at that, and this morning we're looking at a topic that I'm
kind of anxious and excited to preach about, probably because I'm the greatest offender.
And so this one is really pointed at me primarily, and I hope you learn something as well, okay?
Because I've not met too many committed followers of Jesus who were lazy and slothful.
In fact, it's the opposite.
I've found that too many Christians are wound up, stressed out, and overcommitted.
Does that resonate with anybody in this room besides me?
Okay, a few of you.
You're going to be honest, okay.
Tim Hansel in a book called When I Relax, I Feel Guilty said this.
So many Christians have succumbed to busyness, unhappiness, tightness, and boredom.
Many suffer from a nagging sense of guilt that no matter how much they do, it's never quite enough.
Words like wonder, joy, rest, and freedom
have become faded replicas of what Christ taught.
Time becomes a tyrant instead of a friend.
Joy becomes something we will do later.
Play becomes something only for children.
Creativity becomes the unattainable quality of artists and poets
instead of the essence of our lives.
Wonder is the name of a bread,
and imagination doesn't make enough money to be worthwhile.
Committed followers of Jesus Christ in America, by and large, have a good work ethic,
but I'm not sure that we're convinced that we are to play.
Does godliness equal busyness?
We've got a work ethic, but do we have a rest ethic?
Can rest and leisure be holy?
Is recreation godly?
What should our recreation look like?
as Christians? And given that we live in a locale that is just so full of opportunities for fun,
recreation, and leisure, what difference does our faith in Jesus Christ make in our rest if we ever
take it and our relaxation at all? Some of you might resonate with some of this. Is your schedule
overwhelming? Do you find yourself at times tempted to brag about how your schedule is
overwhelming. Do your children and grandchildren seem disoriented
when not on the way somewhere? When you call your kids for dinner,
do they instinctively jump in the minivan? Does life seem like it's
just one activity after another? It's hockey and then soccer
and basketball and homework and tennis and piano and ballet and on
and on and on. Does that seem to resonate with either your life or
your kid's life or grandchildren? Studies are
shown us in the last 20 years has been a decline of 12 hours a week in the average child's free
time. We're filling up their lives, and we're filling up our lives as parents and grandparents.
Is that always a good thing? In American families, time for household conversation has decreased
by 100%. Even though studies show that that's the number one preventative of at-risk behavior
is conversation. We're not doing it with our kids and our grandkids. In a national poll in the year
2000, educational issues tied with not having enough time together with parents, those two
issues were the chief concerns among teenagers in our country. And I found this interesting in light
especially of our guest this morning. In 1997, there was a study by the International Labor
organization, that Americans work more hours than even the Japanese, and that I've always thought
of the Japanese as the most industrious working nation, and yet Americans are now working more
and playing less. Why do we live such harried, rushed, frantic lives? And the deeper question
might be, why do some of us fear that school is out? Because we can't keep them occupied till
September, maybe. See, we're so used to this fast pace. Does life have to be this complicated?
Is this the abundant life that Jesus promised his followers? Does godliness equal busyness?
Let's start in the Scriptures with Exodus chapter 20. I share it with you.
Remember, God says, to observe the Sabbath day by keeping it holy. Six days a week are set apart
for your daily duties and regular work,
but the seventh day is a day of rest
dedicated to the Lord your God.
On that day, no one in your household
may do any kind of work.
This includes you, your sons and daughters,
male and female servants,
your livestock, and any foreigners living among you.
For in six days the Lord made the heavens,
the earth, the sea, and everything in them.
Then he rested on the seventh day.
That is why the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and set it apart as holy.
Now as we look at that text, coming from the Old Testament,
we need to realize that God didn't rest on the seventh day because he was tired.
It's easy to put that concept onto God as if, boy, six days of creating the universe,
and wow, God is tired, God's pooped out, he takes a break.
I don't think that's the concept here in the text.
because he desisted from work on the seventh day
and entered into the enjoyment of what he had.
The seventh day was to experience the goodness of the creation.
It was a time for play with the creation.
A time for Sabbath rest means that we are to enter into that mutual enjoyment
of God and of his good creation.
That's the heart behind the Sabbath.
I love this text from Mark chapter 6.
The apostles returned to Jesus from their ministry tour and told him all that they had done and what they had taught.
Then Jesus said, let's get away from the crowds for a while and rest.
There were so many people coming and going that Jesus and the apostles didn't even have time to eat.
They left by boat for a quieter spot.
Jesus took a break, and I'm getting convicted, all right?
I hope some of you are too.
Another passage, another image for us to ponder in our text this morning, Zechariah chapter 8.
Another message came from the Lord Almighty.
This is what the Lord Almighty says.
My love for Mount Zion is passionate and strong.
I am consumed with passion for Jerusalem.
Then Jerusalem, and now the Lord says, I'm returning to Mount Zion.
I will live in Jerusalem.
Then Jerusalem will be called the faithful city.
The mountain of the Lord Almighty will be called the holy mountain.
This is what the Lord Almighty says.
Once again, old men and women will walk Jerusalem's streets with a cane
and sit together in the city squares.
And the streets of the city will be filled with, notice this,
boys and girls at play.
Isn't that beautiful?
The streets of the city are filled with boys and girls at play.
What a wonderful image.
The first hearers of that prophecy knew their sordid history.
The kingdom of Israel had been for years under King David,
and it was a glorious time, and that was five centuries before.
But then the kingdom was divided, and the northern kingdom was destroyed,
and there was the Assyrians that came in,
the Babylonians, there was an exile
and finally a remnant is allowed to come back
to Jerusalem and all they could see
was a barren wasteland.
But God communicates this image
of restoration of hope
and a wonderful future that's coming
and the image is children involved
in frivolous play.
Isn't that beautiful?
The image of restoration are the children
at play. It's an image of peace and an image of blessing. Carefree play is a blessing of God.
Whether you're young or you're old, that's a blessing of God on our lives. But so often we
squander that blessing, we get over committed, we fail to build margin into our lives, and we get
crowded by the things of the world, and we wear busyness as a badge of honor and a sign of our
self-importance. Sometimes we even turn our play and our children's play into work. It's been said,
I love this phrase, we worship our work, we work at our play, and we play at our worship.
We have it all upside down. We get things out of balance. We need rest. We need leisure and play
to be healthy in our bodies and our souls.
I looked up the word leisure,
and I noticed it came from the same Latin root
from where you get the word license.
And so the word license means to permit.
Leisure is, in a sense,
permitting yourself to do the things you don't normally do.
We give ourselves permission to be free,
free to play like carefree children.
In my research, I also found that the early Puritans that settled our country,
we tend to think of them as really dour, uptight people.
You know, the belt buckle on their hats and the whole thing.
And we have this image that they just were strict and didn't know how to have any kind of fun.
And yet I discovered that Richard Rogers, one of the earliest of the Puritans,
actually advocated and taught this schedule.
I love this.
He says, we're to make up eight hours of our day for work, eight hours a day for sleep,
and eight hours a day for relaxation with friends, with books, or the creation.
Doesn't that sound balanced?
Doesn't that sound wonderful?
Eight hours of work, eight hours of sleep, eight hours of recreation.
Wow, sign me up.
We don't think of God as one who plays.
And as we've talked about before, the films in Hollywood often portray Jesus also as really serious and really dour.
We don't see the frivolity in Jesus.
We don't see the relationships and the smiles and the joy he takes in being with people, with his disciples, with Mary and Martha and Lazarus.
We don't see him portrayed in that way.
The Song of Songs, though, has this playful sexuality all throughout the text.
The Old Testament, we see festivals and dances and celebrations of God's people as a normal part of the experience of living under God in that context.
We see Jesus' first miracle of wine at a wedding feast.
Those things tell us something about God and about playfulness and about recreation and rest.
Here's four things I want to say that doing nothing is good for a variety of reasons.
number one, rest and recreation give us a diversion. They give us a diversion from our
normal employment. They allow us to break our routines. You notice that when you really get
involved in play, when you really get a chance to play, that time stands completely still.
You are totally removed from the normal routines and time and everything else and your cares and
worries just completely vanish. I think of probably the most memorable moment of play
that just has seared itself into my mind. And I have to confess, I need to take more notice of
those moments, but this one is sort of the granddaddy of them all. When I was in college,
about 20 of us drove to Mammoth Mountain on a snowy weekend in January, Martin Luther King
weekend. 20 of us in a condo at Mammoth. If any of you have condos and you have college students
coming, beware. The place, I think, actually slept six, but there were 20 of us there, some in the
bathtub on the kitchen floor. It was really, you know, $10 a head wasn't bad, but it was quite the
time. Now, most of my friends there were drunk as skunks, and they were hung over that next morning,
and I was the good Christian. I was like, no way with that, and me and two friends, we got up
early after the storm had broke and we got up there we were some of the first ones in line we
were the first ones on that lift all the way to the top and we could still hear them you know
blasting the mountain to try and get the snow to fall and to start the avalanche if that was needed
because this storm had dumped five to six feet of fresh powder you know those warren miller ski
movies you ever seen one of those i always wonder where they film that stuff where do they get
anybody actually go where the sun is perfect, snow is perfect, the tracks haven't been made.
You know, nobody ever really has that except me that day. And my two friends and I, we got up to
the top of the Scott Bowl, if you know that wonderful mountain. And we jumped into that
thing and landed up to our necks. And we came down that mountain with fresh tracks and the snow
blowing over our heads it was divine and for those moments we were going down that mountain it was
like a moment completely removed from finals from exams from stress from anything it was a holy day
it was it has just seared itself into my conscience as the most amazing moments and i don't think we
take those kinds of times enough to refresh. I left the mountain that day just invigorated in
spirit, in body. I loved God. I loved His creation. I loved the snow and the sunshine and my friends.
We drove back tired but refreshed. Oh, it was so good. Why do we not do that more often
and refresh ourselves? We need diversions. We need those things to keep us healthy and sharp.
Number two, rest and recreation also refresh us.
They provide an opportunity for creative thoughts, to cultivate memories, to gain perspective.
Sometimes vacation times or when I even go up to the mountains and do some writing and
praying and reflecting, it's those times I can see the bigger picture because the details
of the day and the rhythms of the day finally cease for a few moments and you get a chance
to see really what's important, where you're going, where you've been. I think that's healthy
and I come back often with new ideas and new creative thoughts and rejuvenated by spending
time with God without any of the busyness around. It's so refreshing. It's kind of like many of you
work with computers, right? You're used to that. You've experienced either a computer or seen it
done. There are times in the life of a person in front of a computer when the computer freezes,
right? Yeah, you've been there. Locks up, gets stuck, and what do you do? You either hit reset
or the three-finger salute, control, alt, delete, right? That's the salute. When you give the
computer those three fingers, boom, it's all gone and it reboots. That's what rest and Sabbath does
to our spirits. We're crowded, we're locked up, and we're stuck. Control-Alt-Delete, take a break,
it's gone, you start over. God knew what He was doing when He gave the people of Israel a Sabbath.
You're working six days, Control-Alt-Delete, start over and rest and rejuvenate. It's a time for our
hearts, our souls, and our minds to hit the reset key as Sabbath. We get things fresh, reordered,
the memory is cleared. So rest and recreation refresh us. Rest and recreation, number three,
also transform us because they allow us to play and they allow us to enter into that experience
of being childlike in front of God and enjoying His creation. Psalm 37.4 says,
delight yourself in the Lord and He will give you the desires of your heart. That's not a suggestion,
and that's a command.
Delight yourselves in the Lord.
Delight yourself in Him.
Rest and recreation can be part of that experience.
Now in thinking about this issue of rest and recreation,
is all recreation specifically Christian?
What makes Christian recreation?
And I'm indebted to the thinking of Robert Johnston
and R. Paul Stevens in this area of play and recreation.
Because just because we have a basketball
game going in the gym with Christians doesn't necessarily
make that sport spiritual. We've had some competitive games
over there. Juices are flowing. I mean, what makes it Christian? Is it just
because it's on a church campus? I think our recreation
and our rest and our play becomes Christian
because of two things. The character of the action
and the intent of the person. You see, God gave human beings
a three-fold mandate. Live in communion with God, build community amongst His people,
and work with God to cultivate the earth and develop its potential.
And any recreation that we might engage in that somehow erodes our communion with God
is really not something we ought to partake in. Games that toy around with the demonic
or that encourage kind of a predatory kind of competition, I think, are not Christian.
I take Wired Magazine to keep me up on what's going on, and there's all these reviews of
these computer games full of violence and death and destruction, and this stuff is sick.
Those games, I think, violate our relationship with God.
I think they violate our relationship with each other.
There's this predatory desire that is created when you play some of this stuff.
and so I'm going to challenge us, and it's probably not as appropriate in this congregation.
I don't see many of you going home playing, you know, Doom 4,
but certainly next service I'm going to let them have it, okay, just so you know.
Because those kinds of experiences do not honor God.
I think that they are recreation.
They take a break from reality, but the reality you're creating in the experience is not of God.
And we as Christians need to be critical
and thinking about the things that we engage in.
Are these things honoring God and people
or are they destructive in some way?
Recreation that endangers the creation, I think,
is also something that we need to ask ourselves
if taking a four-wheel drive
and running right over the rabbits is a good thing or not.
We have to ask some questions there.
So that's the character of the action
is what we're doing violating the creation
or violating God's personhood
or our relationship with each other.
And there's also the intent of the person.
If we're doing recreation according to God's plan,
we're not doing it,
rather let me say it this way,
we're playing in grace.
We're allowing ourselves to experience grace.
We allow ourselves to take a break
because we understand that God has saved us
by grace, not by works.
The Bible says in Ephesians 2, 8, 9,
it's by grace you've been saved through faith
and this not from yourselves,
it's the gift of God,
not by work so that no one can boast.
If we fail to take time off
to have some recreation,
to restore ourselves,
we're really not living under grace yet
because we don't really trust
that God is in control
or that somehow we're good enough.
You see, friends, we're never good enough.
We're saved by grace.
and by working a little harder and working more
and always doing more is not what God has for us.
He wants us to rest.
He mandated the Israelites rest at least once every seven days.
In recreation and play, we don't earn anything.
We do it wholeheartedly because we are already justified,
freed, and loved in Christ.
We're free then to enjoy God, His creation, and other people.
Another thing I love about recreation is it's a chance to bond with other people.
That's why it's important that we as a fellowship not only worship together and study together,
but play together.
It builds bonds.
It connects us.
And that's part of God's plan for our lives as well.
He wants us to be praying and studying and playing and enjoying Him and the creation together.
it's a way of restoring us
it's an act of worship
to enjoy God
so finally I just want to ask this question
after all of this
are you ready now to go outside
and play
will you make this Sunday
a day of play
enjoying each other
enjoying God and his creation
let's pray
Father thank you
that you save us by grace
you poured out your love upon us
there's nothing we can do to earn it
And so, Lord, we say thank you.
So, Lord, free us to understand that,
to not work ourselves to the bone,
but to experience rest and restoration
and peace and goodness that comes from your hand.
And I pray that our recreation, our time of play
and freedom and enjoying each other
would be honoring to you and to the family of God.
So, Lord, teach us in these areas.
Grow us up.
Allow us and bless us with freedom to play.
And I pray we'd be childlike in front of you, for you are our heavenly Father.
You desire that we come to you in innocence and with a childlike faith.
Lord, may we experience that also in our play and our recreation.
So, Father, I pray you pour out a blessing, a continual blessing on this church and congregation,
that you'd bless them in their play, in their time of restoring and renewal.
It'd be a rich time.
They would take it as a regular time.
you'd honor them in that
that they would honor you in that
that you'd be blessed in our time of refreshment
thank you for these scriptures
and these words
and our time together
we love you in Jesus name
Amen
