I don't know why, but I was kind of wired after the concert last night, and I was just amped up and excited,
seeing my kids and everybody's kids leaping around for Jesus was really exhilarating,
and then sitting there thinking, I have got to get to bed, because I'm losing an hour,
and those two collided, and so I'm a little woozy, but you know, the Lord is good.
It was a great time last night, and again, that's why we built that place and redid it,
was to do crazy things like that, and to have all these little ones loving Jesus, just warm
my heart, that's what it's about.
Well, as we begin a series moving into owning the vision, I want to do this, I'm going to
take a break for just a moment, because I'm going to invite my friend to come, Paul, would
you come, because we're starting off this series on stewardship, and I'd like for you
to hear our campaign leader share his testimony from up here thank you paul i've been up in front
of a church before but i've never got to use the podium so let me sit back for a while this is fun
um good morning um as i was sitting here during the offering i was uh beginning to think
about my testimony that i'm going to share with you today i began to think and realize as you
hear, I'm not going to be the only person who will share with you testimony on the commitment
that my wife and I are making for the Only in the Vision campaign. But as I sat there and began to
think, I began to realize that it's not, testimonies are meant to encourage, are given to encourage
the congregation. And although that is my purpose, I began to realize that's not what really is
important. The important thing that I have to share with you is not so much what my wife and I
are committing, but the process that we took to arrive at that decision. And that's really
what the meat of what I have to share with you is. To give you a little bit of background,
my wife and I, my wife is downstairs, by the way, with teaching Sunday school, otherwise she would
be up here with me. We are a single income family. I'm a school teacher. My wife stays home with our
son. We are expecting an addition to our family next year, or this year, I should say, in September.
And we find ourselves in a situation where I need to replace my car. My luxurious limousine
is now 17 years old, and we need a new family car. Also, being an elementary school teacher,
I don't know how many of you are aware, but with the state budget crisis that we have,
schools are being hit pretty hard.
This year we received a 1% cost of living increase.
Next year there is no increase.
Some people are not going to have their contracts renewed.
There is even the possibility that we face of possible pay cuts.
So with all of that in mind, the future for somebody who's starting out a family holds a lot of uncertainty.
And when this whole thing started off, I got all excited, because I tend to get excited.
And I'm the type of guy that sometimes I get so excited, I want to take my shirt off,
you know, shirt off my back, sell the barn and give it all to the church and all that.
But realizing that I have obligations to my family, and as a steward,
One of the things that God has entrusted me with is providing for my family.
So having to balance those two out and really feeling torn apart inside.
And I think this was a tougher decision for me than it was for my wife.
She is very practical and matter-of-fact and approaches things like that,
where I, as I was telling you, I get emotional on one side,
so I start going over here, and then the other side, the practical side,
starts to say, whoa, whoa, whoa, calm down, come back a little bit,
and that's this tug of war.
But as I began to struggle in my mind, in my heart, about what should I do in this owning the vision campaign,
a couple of verses kept coming to my mind.
One was Matthew 6.33,
Seek ye first the kingdom of God, and all these things shall be added unto you.
The other was Romans 12, verse 1, where Paul encourages us to offer ourselves up as a living sacrifice to God, which is our spiritual, which is our, offer yourself, offer your, well, let me read, I wrote the verse down just in case I got in trouble like this.
I urge you therefore brethren to by the mercies of God to present your bodies a living and holy
sacrifice acceptable to God which is your spiritual service of worship and as I began to
think about those two verses I realized really what it was getting at or where God was leading
me was to Matthew 22 37 which is a verse that tells us to love the Lord your God with all your
mind, all your heart, and all your soul with everything that you are. And as I meditated on
those verses, I realized too that the natural extension of loving the Lord your God with
everything that you are is loving him with everything that you do and everything that you
have. And I realized too that even with all the uncertainty that I face in my future raising the
family and wanting to provide for them, I also realized that if I make sure that I put God
number one in my life he will meet our needs as he always has and I grew up on the mission field
I don't know if probably a lot of you don't know that about me and the one thing I can I know for
certain my parents always put God first and we never lacked our basic necessities sure there
are times that we couldn't afford to have a color tv or maybe a radio but we always had a roof over
our heads we always had clothes to wear and we always had food on the table and that's the lesson
excuse me that i learned from my parents is that if you put god first he provides for your needs
so uh based on that my wife and i decided we are committing to pledge 250 a month over and above
what we normally give uh keeping in mind all these things that we face in the future with the um
uh how do you call it well allowing ourselves to as god provides to raise or up that limit
as we're able to do so we're setting 250 a month as our basement level with the hopes of being able
to raise it as we move forward uh through the campaign um just one last thing i'd like to share
with you though i had shared my testimony with the master campaign committee at a meeting we had
and that day I had been listening to a song that kind of fits in a lot with what we're doing here
and what this is all about because after all we do as a congregation believe that God led us to
do this so we're not really here trying to convince you to do anything what we're doing
here is encouraging you to listen to what God we believe God has already called us to do
the night i came to share my testimony with the master committee i had been listening to a song
by keith green who when i was a teen he was one of my spiritual heroes and i wrote down some of
the words from that song because it fits in really nice with all of this the words are and if you
love the lord you will love his holy commands delight yourself in him and everything you do
will surely stand and with betty buffkin leading this campaign we're in good hands and i appreciate
your testimony and your encouragement to us.
Well, with that, I want to say to those who are guests this morning,
this is a family matter because this church family
is embarking on debt reduction because of the things we've done
to renovate this beautiful sanctuary and next door.
We're now taking care of our debts and obligations.
And so the sermon series I'm entering into with campaign materials
and with testimonies and things like that,
this is family business.
However, if you're a guest, I think this material will still be good for you.
And I'm glad that you're here.
I don't want you to feel any pressure or anything like that.
But do listen and enjoy and let God speak as we move into owning the vision.
Well, Randy Alcorn, in a very enlightening book that I just read, very short, very small, but very deep,
called The Treasure Principle, I encourage you to get a hold of this.
He describes a PBS special that was on recently that I actually missed,
but just hearing about it just is incredible to me.
It was a documentary discussion on a bug, so to speak, that's captured America.
And this disease is called affluenza.
Isn't that good?
And it talks about this modern-day plague as it affects us,
This modern day plague of materialism and its effects on family and society.
And this documentary was really looking at how affluenza negatively affects us as people.
And here are some of the facts that came out of that special.
The average American shops six hours per week and spends only 40 minutes on average playing with their children.
Whoa.
By age 20, they document that we have seen
over a million commercials.
By 20.
You think that might affect us a little bit?
I think so.
It documents that more Americans
declared bankruptcy recently
than graduated from college.
That's scary.
And last, they talked about how 90% of divorce cases,
money is one of the key issues
that divides the couple, 90%.
What I find most fascinating about this documentary, Affluenza,
is that the show makes its case against this disease
not on moral grounds.
They don't approach it from a biblical, spiritual angle.
They approach it from practical grounds,
simply arguing this, that more doesn't make for Mary.
that having more in our lives doesn't necessarily make us happy individuals.
In fact, affluence can be a disease
that can negatively impact our souls and our relationships.
And so I want you to hear now from some of the wealthiest people of their day.
You'll recognize these names.
Listen to their thoughts.
The care, this person says, of $200 million is enough to kill anyone.
There is no pleasure in it, said W.H. Vanderbilt.
John Jacob Astor said, I am the most miserable man on earth.
And yet we're thinking, you know, I'd like to be tested to see if I really would be miserable, huh?
We're wondering, I could take it.
This guy was a weakling, but la, Lord, let me try.
But as you listen over and over, you realize the same theme.
John D. Rockefeller said, I have made many millions, but they have brought me no happiness.
And this is my favorite.
Andrew Carnegie said, millionaires seldom smile.
Interesting.
Millionaires seldom smile.
And Henry Ford, I was happier when doing a mechanics job.
started a great empire
and was happier working underneath the car
than running the whole thing, having it all.
Friends and family, we are so blessed in this country.
We have so much.
But I think an uncritical approach
to our material blessings
can actually be bad for our souls.
And I want to say in addition
for a vast majority of American Christians
that the link between possessions and our spiritual lives is seldom made.
We just carry on and are just blessed and enjoy the things of this country.
And there's a place for that.
But an uncritical approach to that can also affect our souls.
Jesus made a very intimate connection between our souls and our stuff.
He connected our souls and our stuff very deeply.
And he said that how we relate to our stuff
impacts how we relate to God.
He made that connection.
We often do not.
In the Scripture, in fact,
17 out of 38 parables
are on the issues of possessions.
17 out of 38 on the issue of possessions.
Possessions are mentioned 2,172 times in Scripture.
That's three times more than love, seven times more than prayer, and eight times more than the topic of belief.
And those are important topics.
And yet the discussion Jesus has on possessions is far beyond all of those.
On the whole, I read that 15%, 15% of God's Word deals with possessions and stuff.
We often think it's about prayer and salvation, and it is, but 15%, that's about that much.
That's three or four hundred pages just on our stuff, how we relate to our stuff,
how we handle our stuff, what we do with our stuff.
Jesus said, and how do you benefit if you gain the whole world
but lose your own soul in the process?
Is anything worth more than your soul?
Jesus is making the link between accumulating things and our souls.
He also said in Matthew 6.21,
Wherever your treasure is, there your heart and thoughts will be also.
And the challenge is, where is your treasure and where is your heart?
Because wherever your treasure is, your heart will follow.
Even the first of the Ten Commandments were challenged to make sure that nothing comes between God and us.
The Bible says, first commandment, you shall have no other gods before me, says the Lord.
And friends, our stuff, our materialism, our things can become a God before God.
That's the challenge.
The question we as Christians have to wrestle with is,
is my life things-centered?
Is it stuff-centered or is it God-centered?
That's the challenge for us.
and I'm here to say that how we relate to money and things as Jesus reflects has a direct bearing
on how we relate to God they're directly connected a person's financial life has a direct relationship
to their spiritual life and I dare say we're not used to thinking this way if you want to change
your relationship with God, then you can change your relationship with your stuff. If you want a
better relationship with God, you'll have to make some changes in how you relate to your stuff.
Remember last week, we talked about being in the world, but not of it. The question for us is,
what does that look like? As a Christian in an extremely blessed country, what does that look
like in terms of my finances and possessions? How do I live in this world but not of it? How do I
be a steward of what the blessings God has given me without becoming part of and catching the bug
of affluenza? That's the question for all of us, you and me included. How do we live? How do we live
our financial values based on Jesus
in a world that says
you've always got to have more.
Let me share with you a little story
about my life recently.
I've been saving month by month
for a brand new guitar.
And as of the writing of this sermon,
it had not come in.
It's actually laying down right there
because I don't have a stand for it at the moment.
And I just got it.
And I'll tell you, I've been saving, you know,
a few dollars here a week and Robin said you can put it in that little coffee can so to speak and
I've been squirreling it away and I have been looking forward to this and just I mean it's a
custom guitar I picked out the woods my name is engraved I mean it's mine oh mine and I was just
I literally woke up dreaming about this guitar so excited to have it and the twisted part of my soul
has bought it wrote the check I know it's on the way I'm excited and I'm driving by guitar center
the other day and already I'm thinking and then next I can't wait oh I've got to get this
and I realized how sick saving for a year looking forward to something and finally buying it was
it good enough? No, my soul is already on to the next. Sick. And I really began to pray, Lord,
have I got affluenza? You think it's going to satisfy. You think whatever it is that you're
looking forward to is going to meet the need and be all that you'll need. And friends, I have
learned it, we all know it, that the more you get, the more you want. We're never ultimately
satisfied and something I read challenged me not to mention just my selfishness and wanting more
and I had to repent about that say Lord I'm sorry I'm thankful that you're blessing me with this and
I could save up and and purchase this and it's going to be a great blessing and and I gave it
to the Lord to use for worship and I've I've given it away if I scratch it today it's God's
problem not mine but really our souls always want more and as I read you know every item we buy
It's one more thing to think about, talk about, clean, repair, rearrange, fret over, and replace when it goes bad.
And the more stuff we accumulate, the more we're controlled by all that stuff.
How do we get healed?
How do we get healed of this disease of affluenza?
How do we not let it take over our souls?
How do we get free of this disease?
Here it is, change your giving, change your soul.
Change your giving, you'll change your soul.
Because giving breaks the fever of affluenza.
Giving breaks this grip that our stuff has on our souls.
Giving sorts things out, it puts God first.
Giving breaks the grip that our things have on our lives.
Giving puts our sights on another vista, not just on our stuff.
We believe, we believe that disciplines, habits, spiritual habits like prayer,
Bible study, and solitude, and service, and so on,
we believe, we know from history that those experiences, they shape our souls.
The more that we pray and meditate and become quiet before the Lord and retreat
and do all of these things,
we know they shape us.
They shape us spiritually.
They shape us.
But friends, giving is a discipline also.
Giving is a discipline that will also shape our souls
like all the other spiritual disciplines.
Generosity will affect and shape your soul.
It will break the grip of affluenza.
And after all, if we're shaping our souls like God's soul,
God is a God who gave.
For He gave His one and only Son.
Yes, friends, yes.
The church needs your money to do ministry.
Yes, we need your money to retire the debt.
Yes, we're going to talk about all that.
We're going to encourage you in those ways.
Yes, we need finances to do and take care of all of these things.
But what's really important,
what's really important is that our giving to God
is a reflection of His giving to us
and that it protects us
from spiritual poverty
that comes as affluenza
courses through our souls.
Friends, what's really important
is that our giving
change us and improve our souls.
And as it does that, as we give,
it sorts us out and it puts God first
and it actually improves
our relationship with our God.
Your giving will grow your soul.
I believe that.
And I've seen that in my life.
Your giving will bring your character into the likeness of the character of God.
A God who gives.
A God who gave and still gives.
In our passage today, we're going to share some other dimensions of this relationship between our souls and our stuff.
Take a look at this amazing passage from Luke 16.
Jesus told this story to his disciples.
A rich man hired a manager to handle his affairs,
but soon a rumor went around that the manager was thoroughly dishonest.
So his employer called him in and said,
what's this I hear about your stealing from me?
Get your report in order because you're going to be dismissed.
And the manager thought to himself,
and now what?
I'm through here and I don't have the strength to go out and dig ditches.
I'm too proud to beg.
I know.
I'll have plenty of friends to take care of me when I leave.
I know what to do.
So he invited each person who owed money to his employer
to come and discuss the situation.
And he asked the first one,
how much do you owe him?
The man replied, I owe him 800 gallons of olive oil.
So the manager told him, tear up that bill and write another one for 400 gallons.
And how much do you owe my employer, he asked the next man.
A thousand bushels of wheat was the reply.
Here, the manager said, take your bill, replace it for only 800 bushels.
Well, the rich man, he had to admire the dishonest rascal for being so shrewd.
And it's true that the citizens of this world are more shrewd than the godly are.
I tell you, use your worldly resources to benefit others and make friends.
In this way, your generosity stores up a reward for you in heaven.
Unless you are faithful in small matters, you won't be faithful in large ones.
If you cheat even a little, you won't be honest with greater responsibilities.
And if you are untrustworthy about worldly wealth, who will entrust you with the true riches of heaven?
And if you are not faithful with other people's money, why should you be trusted with money of your own?
No one can serve two masters, for you will hate the one and love the other, or be devoted to one and despise the other.
You cannot serve both God and money.
That's an intriguing parable.
The devious manager, he knew the jig was up.
He knew he was going to be out of work.
He doesn't want to dig ditches.
He doesn't want to do those things.
So he came up with a plan to win friends and influence people.
He reduced the debts owed to his boss.
And the manager reduced the interest.
Now whether he did it by reducing interest or taking away the commissions, we're not really sure.
Either way, he took that thing down for each one of those men.
And yeah, they loved him because of that.
That's how you win, friends.
You be shrewd.
But here's three things that we learn from this passage.
Number one, our possessions are given as a tool for us in the kingdom.
Our possessions are a tool to further God's kingdom here on earth.
Jesus says that the people of this world are more shrewd about their future
than the people of light.
The people of this world give more thought
to their physical well-being
than the righteous do to their spiritual well-being.
Jesus is challenging us.
Jesus is saying we need to learn
how to use our worldly possessions
in such a way that when you enter heaven,
people are going to say to you,
thank you for using your resources.
Friends, we have limited time on this earth.
Use your possessions wisely.
Use them wisely.
God wants us to leverage our money and our possessions
so that when we get to heaven,
people will walk up to you and say,
thank you.
You don't know me, but years ago on earth,
you invested in this ministry.
And I was won to Christ because of that ministry.
I'm here because you supported them that reached me.
Oh, that would be so fun.
How do we leverage what God has given us
We might win people unto the Lord.
How do we use our car and our homes
and our clothes and our stocks
and our time and our talents,
our collections, our guitars,
you name it,
for the glory of the Lord?
I want to share good news.
The past four weeks,
between high school ministry
and junior high ministry
and the kids play wrap-up
that we had a week ago,
So, 25 people have given their lives to Jesus Christ because of this ministry.
In one month, 25 people.
They came to play basketball and those parents found Jesus at the closing ceremonies.
And those high school kids are bringing their friends because this place is a place they're proud of bringing their friends.
Because for once they say, we've got a cool place to love Jesus and bring our friends.
and they're coming and they're finding the lord building up brought us the opportunities to do
ministry that people found jesus and that's why we're here we've leveraged those monies
owning the vision is just paying down some of these debts to free up more money for ministry
i could not be happier with how god has blessed in the past month and a long time and it shows
me again that our possessions are just tools our possessions are tools we give to ministry we give
to the kingdom of God and let him magnify it and multiply it and use it to reach more people.
And I can't wait to go to heaven and see the people that are there because we gave to things
we don't even know about right now. But as God multiplies it, they're there. Friends are giving
and our possessions are a tool. Our possessions are also given as a test. They're a test to see
how much responsibility will be given in heaven. It's very clear from the Bible in Romans 14 and
2 Corinthians chapter 5 that we all are going to stand before the Lord and render account of our
lives, including what we did with the things that he gave us. And God's going to ask us, where did
it all go? Your money and your possessions. What did you spend it on? What was accomplished for
eternity with the things that I've given you while on earth? And those who can handle little
be given little friends are our resources put to selfish or to generous use if we can't manage what
god has given us here we're not going to be able to manage what he has for us in the kingdom
this world and our use of our resources here is a test the test is who is our lord is it our god
or is it our stuff can we manage our stuff for the kingdom and prove we're worthy to manage
in the kingdom when it comes it comes in its fullness we cannot serve both god and money
are we leveraging our stuff to invest in heavenly stock that's the question and i've said it before
our checkbook and our visa drafts will tell us they'll tell us where our hearts really are
possessions are a tool our possessions are a test and finally our possessions
they serve as a trademark a trademark to those around us that were believers in the lord jesus
christ what's a trademark a trademark is a distinctive label it's that little red flag
on levi jeans when you see it you know they're levi's when you see that little multi-colored
apple you know it's an apple computer when you see the a and the halo you know what that stands for
You know what it's about.
Advertisers spend millions
that we might recognize those trademarks,
those symbols.
And friends, our possessions can be a trademark
of who we serve and whose we are.
When people see you,
do they see that you're of this world
or do they see you're of a different kingdom?
Do your values and how you use your stuff
reflect God and His plans for your life?
How do you use your stuff?
Do people see Jesus in the kingdom
when they see you using your stuff?
Or is it all for you?
What trademark do you wear?
Is it the world's trademark?
Or is it God's?
And I know it's challenging for us
because there are no hard and fast rules
in the Scriptures
about how many cars,
how many houses, how many toys.
We have to go before the Lord individually,
honestly,
seeking His wisdom and His guidance.
And sometimes we just want rules.
But God calls us to that intimate relationship
as we say, Lord, You've blessed me with so much.
How do I live for You with the things You've given me?
I can give you this formula, though.
Make all you can.
Live as inexpensively as possible with contentment
and provide maximum resources for the kingdom.
Whatever that looks like for each of you.
That's what God might be calling you to do.
Jesus, friends, Jesus gave us everything.
For the sake of his love for us,
Jesus desires that we enjoy him forever.
He gave up everything for us.
May we be able to give to him
and use the blessings he's given us
as a tool, as a test, and a trademark.
We might honor the Lord
with all the blessings he's given us.
My final question, are you ready to start living for Jesus,
giving for Jesus, and honoring,
honoring his ultimate sacrifice for us?
Because again, he's a God who gave.
That's his character, is to give.
This table reflects the reality
that he gave everything for us.
The symbols of the bread and the cup
are symbols of ultimate sacrifice.
They're symbols of a God
that gave up His only Son, Jesus, for us.
That's how much He loves us.
That's how much He loves you.
That God's own Son would give it all up
that we might have life with Him forever.
And when that begins to really sink into our souls
and really permeate the very core of our being,
it really challenges us
to be faithful people that live in the world
but not of it for His sake, for Jesus.
He loved us so much that He would die for us,
take our sin, take all of our selfishness,
take our affluenza, take it all to the cross
and leave it there and nail it there.
We might be free, free to live, free to give,
free to experience God in the now.
Knowing our past is secure, our future is secure.
and we'll be with Him forever.
Oh, what a God we serve.
Oh, what a great God of love that would give it all
and stretched out His arms this wide and gave it all for us.
Let us pray.
Our Heavenly Father,
Your very character is a God who gives.
You gave Your one and only Son
that whoever believes in You would have eternal life
and we'd never perish.
Thank You for You.
Thank You for Jesus
and the sacrifice that You made for us.
And so, Lord, as we take these elements,
may You impress upon us again
the depth of Your love
and the depth of Your sacrifice,
the depth of Your giving to us and for us.
And may that cause us to love You more,
to worship You more,
to seek You out more and more.
So meet us here, we pray.
In Jesus' name we pray.
Amen.
