Amen. Thank you, worship team. Good morning. Welcome. It is good to be back with you. I trust you had fun with my colleague, Bob Orr, last week.
If you were not here, we had a little switcheroo. I got a chance to preach in Santa Ana, and he got a chance to share here.
And it was, I think, fun for both of us. And we met afterwards for lunch, swapped stories, and you were all very gracious and loving to him.
and likewise down in Santa Ana.
So we had a good time sharing each other's churches
and encouraging the people.
I also just want to say up front
that a wonderful thing has happened in our family this week.
My youngest has decided to follow Jesus.
And I want to thank you as a body.
I want to thank you especially Carmen Huipe
and others in our children's department
who have been plowing that soil
and I walked by his bedroom and mommy was there talking with him
and I heard this conversation and he blessed my heart and I realized
that with the ministry of our children's ministry here, God is doing
a great work and so now both of my sons, because of your faithfulness
in ministering to my children, are now followers of the Lord
Jesus Christ. And that's what it's all about and I couldn't be happier.
So my encouragement to you in children's and youth
ministry, you do far more than you may ever realize, and I want to thank you and I bless
you for that.
Well, it was a great day.
It's a great day today.
We celebrate a birthday today.
We celebrate a church today.
We celebrate a church born in the heart of God and ignited in the hearts of a small group
of people in this once rural community 110 years ago a community known as fullerton and our church
in that rural community and if you've seen the pictures and they're in this room next door this
little little church with dirt all around a little mission outpost of jesus on this part of the
Southern California plain. Wow. An outpost for Jesus Christ. And 110 years later, that vision
of seeing an outpost for Jesus Christ, that vision continues because the mission continues today.
In fact, our church and any church that proclaims Jesus, for that matter, is today a mission church
in our culture. You see, in the early and the mid
20th century, our church, like many churches in our
community, was a central part of the community.
But yet, at the end of the 20th and the
beginning of the 21st century, which we now live, we can
understand that the spiritual landscape has changed
and that the church is no longer a central part of community life.
It's not that we haven't been faithful to our calling.
Rather, the community has changed.
The spiritual climate has changed.
And we can never go back.
But the church of Jesus Christ lives today at the margins of our society.
And we no longer hold that prominent place in the eyes of the community around us.
I find Fullerton to actually be an anomaly.
because they still allow me as a pastor to come to various chamber of commerce events
and to give an invocation and I can pray boldly in the name of Jesus and it's still okay.
Amen.
But that may not last forever.
And so when I share that with other colleagues, they are amazed that I can get away with that
Whereas that used to be normative, part of the experience of the community gathering together,
whether for business, for church, whatever, Jesus was held up, but not any longer.
As we are now moving to the margins, I want to encourage you with this.
From the margins, we have a voice.
You see, the early church lived in similar circumstances.
The early church did not have the benefits of recognition and prestige.
The early Christians were deemed crazy, a sect.
They were even considered, listen, cannibalistic.
Now why would that be?
Well, it was rumored that they ate the body and blood of Jesus at communion.
This weird group of people gathering and drinking blood,
that was the impression of the early church in the early community.
but from the margins the early church had a witness
and their primary witness in the early days
was made credible
when the early Christians took care of the sick
and the dying
when the diseases and the plagues
swept through the community
and took out a quarter to a third of the people
every time it swept through
and you know what happened
who stayed behind
to love the sick and the dying
was the Christians
And that witness of being faithful in the midst of great calamity
gave them a prominence and a rooting in a community.
They were in the margins, but because they were faithful, the church grew.
The faith had depth and real love, and the church grew.
And as the church grew without the benefits of being at the center,
the church has known life at the margins.
We live at the margins.
And I guess I want to say, it's okay to be at the margins.
Because, you know, our forefathers in the faith, foremothers, the Israelites lived much of their life at the margins.
Particularly when God judged the nation of Israel for its disobedience and worship of other gods,
they really went into exile and to live at the margins.
Around the 6th century B.C., they were far-flung and divided.
And when all hope seemed lost, when God seemed distant and quiet and absent, God can bring renewal.
I want us to take a look at this text from Isaiah this morning.
When the Jews had been in exile, God seemed removed and gone.
This word came in Isaiah 54.
The first three verses.
Sing, O barren woman, you who never bore a child.
Burst into song and shout for joy.
You who were never in labor because more of the children of the desperate woman than ever who has a husband, says the Lord.
Enlarge the place of your tent.
Stretch your tent curtains wide.
Do not hold back.
Lengthen your cords.
Strengthen your stakes.
For you will spread out to the right and to the left.
Your descendants will dispossess nations and settle in their desolate cities.
It's quite an image.
The image of the barren woman.
In the culture of that time, a barren woman was seen as without God's blessing
and was in a state of continual mourning.
And then God breaks in.
Sing, O barren woman, for you're about to have many children.
Enlarge the place of your tent.
Get strong stakes.
Make the cords longer, for you're about to have a big family gathering.
This text in the message, look how it's translated.
Clear lots of ground for your tents.
Make your tents large.
Spread out.
Think big.
an amazing word when God seemed distant
when the people were in exile think big
God is still at work even when God seems to be
absent God is in control do we believe that
church that God is in control even when the church
is at the margins of the society God is still in control
we're still to be faithful and God can move
and have a voice from the margins.
The church in the U.S. today, I believe,
is in exile from the dominant culture,
and I do not see that trend turning around anytime soon.
But I'm not worried.
I am not worried.
Because it's been said that God still plays dead
to see if we notice.
And here's the point.
When God plays dead, it's the beginning of hope.
When we feel like we're marginalized and on the edge
and where is God and where is our prominence
and where is all the prestige of being the church,
now we can begin to have renewal together.
We may not find the church at the center of the community,
but God is alive and well in the churches
and is doing things in our midst.
And he may be doing new things to reach this generation.
I don't know anything about basketball.
I don't know anything about a bounce pass.
And as a coach of your little ones,
I've been reading that little manual every week
What's the next drill?
What's the next step?
And Marsha Wagner's team trounced my little team,
but that's all right, because we're not keeping score.
But let me tell you this.
As a coach of these little ones in this outreach experience,
to see those little kids come and to have them prayed for,
and at the halftime of our practice in the games
to hear the gospel message of Jesus Christ,
and to have parents beginning to ask about the ministries of our church
and beginning to feel a part of this community.
God does a new thing through sports to reach people
and to love them and to bless them.
And I find the great privilege to wear sneakers for Jesus
and fumble around on a basketball court
to share the message with families together.
There's nothing greater than that.
So what if we're at the margins?
It's great to have families come.
they may not know anything about this church
or who God is or how much he loves them
but we have a voice
because God is alive and well and doing great things
we're having a great time
we may not be shaping policy at the government level
but our young people are encountering God
in their culture
talk to our young people coming back from camp
talk to their vim and their vigor
for proclaiming the truth on the campuses today
they're fired up
That's why we prayed for them this morning.
We don't want that fire to diminish because they're ready to be witnesses.
We may not have the largest church around,
but in our classes our people are definitely learning how to live like disciples of Jesus Christ.
The church may be at the margins today, but God is definitely working from the margins.
So let us not worry about being at the center.
Let us minister from the outside like the first church did.
And the church grew.
Oh, did it grow.
We're going to be faithful to live kingdom ethics, kingdom lifestyle, and kingdom priorities,
whether from the center or the extremes.
We're going to live out our mission statement that we worked with and finally put into this language.
It's the same basic principles that 110 years ago a church was formed here, built on these same premises.
We've just updated the language, and here they are.
FFBC, Fullerton First Baptist Church,
is about celebrating God, loving others,
reaching beyond our own,
mentoring lives in His Spirit,
and living the lives for which we were made.
That's what we're about.
It's what the New Testament has called the church to be about.
It's about worship and community and outreach
and discipleship and ministry to each other
through our spiritual gifts.
we're going to be faithful, even at the edge.
I want to share our letterhead for a moment. You'll see it in the background.
Here it comes to the foreground. What is that thing? Some of you wonder
what that is. It's a compass. It's a compass
with Jesus' cross at the bottom pointing
north. It's what we're focused on. And in
this day, we're charting new territory. Why do we have that as a sub-theme?
What does that mean?
We chart new territory because, friends, the church has never been in this particular situation ever.
We're not only at the margins of the society.
The early church was there, but they were never there in a world of such global communication,
such globalism, such multicultural experience.
We've never been in this kind of culture directly, and the church is charting new territory.
We are on unfamiliar ground, but we're going to be faithful to point to Jesus
and chart our course on these crazy seas before us.
It's been called the rolling seas of post-modernity.
There is a big mouthful.
Let me explain that.
I've been talking a lot about that.
What is this post-modern thing?
Why is that such a hip word in academia now trickling down into main culture?
Well, here's what post-modernity really is.
It's a reaction to pretty much all that we have known as we've grown up with.
You see, we're modern people.
We talk about the modern age, the modern world, and the postmodern reacts against that.
Because absolute truth is now questioned.
Is there such a thing?
And if there is, can you really know it?
The individual now decides right and wrong.
Because in reality, there is no right and wrong.
There's no truth.
therefore whatever you want to do is okay if it works for you our culture rejects science
and reason as the only path to knowledge they're more spiritual now actually and we see a rise
of neo-pagan religion and if you question this talk to your children and grandchildren about
what's happening on the campuses today wiccan covens are popping up all over the place
Witchcraft is now part of the normative part of our society.
We are in postmodern, unfamiliar water,
and the church is charting new territory
as we bring the gospel to this squishy, wobbly, unstable time.
A time of constant change and discontinuous change.
You see, in the old world,
you could plan because change went incrementally in the same direction.
And now it's discontinuous.
It's all over the place.
It's not an easy time for the church.
If people reject truth, then people are going to reject biblical truth.
If people decide what's right and wrong, why go to church at all?
People are open to spirituality, to pagan forms of religion.
Who needs Jesus?
This earth worship and Wiccan practice, it works for me.
I heard about a bumper sticker from one of my colleagues this week that he saw.
It said, after the rapture, the Wiccans get the earth.
Whoa.
Now that was in Oregon.
Kind of expect that from Oregon.
But friends, that thinking is going to trickle down.
It's already here.
What does it mean to chart new territory in such an environment?
We church leaders have to rethink a lot of things.
because what we've been accustomed to and trained for and always known that if we do this program
and try this, it's going to reach people, it's all up for grabs today. And my anxiety is this,
I'm a young guy, I've been trained supposedly for the ministry, sent out with all this training,
and guess what? I'm dumping it as fast as I can because they trained me for a world
that I don't live in today.
And I'm young.
You want to see my colleagues who are 10, 15, 20 years older.
They're popping Tums faster than you can believe
because their stomachs are upset
because they don't know how to swim in postmodern seas.
We are learning, and it's risky, and it's challenging,
but it's kind of fun too
because you really have to hold on to Jesus
and literally just go with Him
because our planning isn't going to do it.
our hubris that we can project all these things it isn't there we have no idea what our culture
will do in two years we don't know you know six months from now what's happening i want to share
a quote from a great book aqua church by leonard sweet he says this he says chaos is one of the
key words for 21st century how fitting though that the word be associated with water spiritual
awakening is the knowledge of the glory of the lord cascading over people as the waters cover
the sea from habakkuk 2 14 he writes spiritual awakening is the opening of the floodgates of
heaven malachi 3 10 so that showers of blessing may fall in other words spiritual leaders are
rainmakers. What revivalists were to the modern world,
rainmakers are to the post-modern world. And every one of us
is called to be a rainmaker. The greatest
rainmaker of all time, Jesus the Christ, had his own
pet ministry, or rather metaphor for ministry. He called it
living water. Water is always going somewhere.
The grace of God is like water that's being poured out.
A celestial fluid poured out from above.
Great images.
I want you to notice something about water he goes on later to talk about.
And he pointed this out.
It's like I know this, but it was one of those obvious moments that struck me,
that water fills the shape of any container you pour it in.
If you don't tamper with the water, if you don't change it or dilute it or anything,
If you just leave it, the content can remain the same while the containers will change.
It will fill whatever container it's in.
And I believe that every generation needs a shape, a container that fits their understanding,
it fits their soul.
And living water from Jesus can fill that, even if we wouldn't walk around with that container.
You see how the metaphor works.
There are styles of worship going on in our youth group that if you went up to camp, you would be, what is that?
It's the water filling their container.
It's not my container.
And I think I'm pretty hip, and I find myself outside in the back.
It's too loud for me.
But God fills the containers.
And God is always creating new filling containers.
And it's time for us to create ministries that might look different.
and Jesus will fill them and reach new people in ways they understand.
That's what Paul meant when he talked about becoming all things to all men and women,
that we might win some.
Here at Fullerton First, we've made some changes in worship over the years
and our facilities to reach a postmodern world,
and I believe that now we're ready for God to renew us in our souls.
We've done some of the outside things.
it's time for us to have a closer walk
with Jesus the Christ
to renew even our very structure for ministry
that we can deliver the living water
into the various containers
that need to be filled
I believe our new document that we're going to be talking about today
is a step in the direction of a stripped down structure
for effective ministry but it's only a step
it isn't the end all in fact it's just the beginning
step. I talked to my pastor a few days ago, Mark Lambert.
I was pretty proud of our document. I was excited about it. I was sharing it
with him and I was feeling pretty good, you know. And he said, yeah,
it's pretty good. He said, you're nowhere near where you need to be, but it's
pretty good. And boy, he ran on my parade, but he's out
in front of the pastors pushing me and saying, Fullerton, you've got to make
these steps and then more steps to be really the kind of place
that's going to work and sail these post-modern seas.
And so what we're talking about today is just a step
in a series of steps as we become really missional people.
And I have to say, I've been in class all week.
I sat with a professor, Eddie Gibbs, who is 65 years old.
And this man is an expert in church growth
and all the things in the post-modern world.
And here's a man, 65 years old, way out in front of us.
and there's a bunch of us 30-somethings in the class
and he is making our jaw drop to the floor
of what we have to do to reach people
in this neo-pagan society.
And it was amazing to learn from a man
who usually we think in our arrogance of youth
that, oh, we know what's going on culturally.
Come on, old man, you don't know what's up.
To be humbled and be blown away
by what God is doing from the margins
and pushing us.
Don't get uncomfortable, students,
because it's going to keep getting crazy out there.
But hold on to Jesus is the motto.
So we're going to get into Jesus this year,
our next preaching series.
We're going to be looking at the book of John
as we get into Jesus.
And we're going to get into worship later this year.
We're going to really wrestle with what it means
to deal with worship
throughout the whole Christian tradition.
How do we grab the best of our tradition for today
that it might impact our love for Jesus.
That's our year.
So I want to wrap up this by just saying,
well, what is Jesus all about?
I want you to come to these places throughout this year.
To the imprisoned, Jesus is the key to freedom,
the door of salvation.
To the sick, Jesus is the great physician.
Amen.
To the naked, Jesus is the lily of the valley,
more adorned than all of Solomon's raiments.
To the attacked, Jesus is advocate and redeemer from the law.
To the addicted, Jesus is the supplier of every need.
To the debtor, Jesus is the payer of our debt and our earnest.
To the lonely, Jesus is the comforter who has come.
To the drowning, Jesus is an anchor and green pastures.
To the homeless, Jesus is the cornerstone
To the mansion, just over the hilltop
To the depressed, Jesus is the sun of righteousness
The rose of Sharon
To the educationally harassed, Jesus is the alpha and the omega
To the lost, Jesus is the north star
The bright and morning star, the day star
To the wanderer, Jesus is the way.
To the dead, Jesus is the life.
To the seeker, Jesus is the truth.
And to the hungry, Jesus is the bread of heaven,
the vine that can turn water into wine.
Jesus is all of the above, to all of the above.
But to the world, to everyone everywhere,
Jesus is the world's greatest lover.
Who is Jesus?
The world's greatest lover.
Because you can't out-love the Lord.
Who am I?
I'm the one Jesus loves.
Who are you?
You are the one Jesus loves.
Who is?
I am.
I am his love.
This year, we're going to discover more deeply who Jesus is.
and it's my desire that all of us in this church
are going to fall more deeply in love with Jesus
that you can't go a single moment
and walk in his footsteps
and we're going to explore worship as we talked about
how to use the great traditions all the way back to the earliest church
to give more glory to our worship of Jesus
it's going to be really quite a year
you don't want to miss it at all
so as we set sail on these uncharted waters
as we do ministry in new ways to reach new people.
Our hope and our focus is Jesus,
the star by which we navigate,
truly the North Star that we'll set our sights on
and navigate across the rolly seas of this world.
So are you ready to experience more of Jesus in your life?
Climb aboard.
Are you ready to navigate by Jesus, the North Star?
Climb aboard.
because I believe that when we let Jesus live through us
and that when we are sold out for him
and we let Jesus to be our guide,
then as the scripture said,
clear lots of ground for your tents,
make your tents large, spread out, think big.
I believe that God will use this family
to enlarge his family
and what a privilege that will be.
Let's pray.
our god you are the north star for us we can rely on nothing but you our programs our tricks
our traditions all really come under your dominion it's all about you jesus so i pray
that lord that you'd be our vision that we'd set our gaze on you and in the chaos of living life
in this strange world, the postmodern world,
whatever that is, I pray that we would be faithful
to creatively bring in this message
to a world that is searching for you
that doesn't even know it, that needs you so much.
And Lord, may we not have arrogance for knowing you,
but real compassion for others.
So Lord, as we think about ministry coming up
and ways of structuring ministry help us
just to be humble before you,
gazing at the North Star.
And Holy Spirit, may your winds blow and fill our sails
and the sea might get bumpy and rough and chaotic.
And we're going to be steadfast,
sailing where you'd have us go.
So thank you for encouraging us again,
for doing ministry from the margins
as you've done in the past and you'll do it now
and you'll do it in the future.
Thanks for the privilege, Lord, of being a part of what you're doing on earth.
So use us, we pray in Jesus' name together.
Amen. Amen.
