Good morning. First of all, I bring you greetings from our sister church, Warm Springs Baptist Church of Las Vegas, Nevada,
where we as a staff had spent the past few days as part of our annual conference.
And the theme of the conference was, This Man Welcomes Sinners, Do We?
And so to be in Las Vegas, we felt like it was an appropriate place for the churches to gather.
and I had the privilege of sharing with my staff
and spending time on the strip with them
eating well for very cheap
and yet really thinking through
do we really care for all these lost people
that seem to concentrate so much there in that city
but they're everywhere aren't they
and it is our job and our duty
and our responsibility and our privilege
to bring the love of Jesus Christ to them
in any way that we can
and so we were really challenged in different ways
and had an opportunity to hear Lee Strobel, the man who wrote The Case for Christ and The Case for Faith,
as he spoke to us and encouraged us, and we just had a blast.
And then while we were there, of course, the angels were still kind of up and down,
and the bookies were running around, and it was really quite a scene.
And I'll tell you, after last night, my heart can't take that anymore.
Now, who would have thought, beginning of this year, we'd be right here moving our pastor's class up an hour,
that we might see that and also learn about our church.
So, a lot of fun things.
I finally do want to say that if you've been blessed by Kit's testimony
and want to be part of her ministry and prayer and support,
she's got an email sign up at the back.
You can let her know your email and she'll keep in touch with you,
as she will this church.
We are one of her friendly churches that we love her on the West Coast.
And we want to keep track of your ministry and be a part of that.
And we may come see you, and you may come pick us up at the airport.
And that would be very fun as we minister in Thailand.
So get your chopsticks out.
You never know what the Lord may do.
Well, there's a lot happening in our world, isn't there?
I mean, in just a few days' time, the newspapers can send you all over the place.
I mean, now North Korea has the bomb.
The tentacles of terrorism have gripped many parts of our world and continue to do so.
A shooter had the Washington area living in abject fear on a daily basis.
Stocks have been down, down, down, and then up, up, up.
And the question is, where is it going next?
Companies are downsizing in order to survive.
It hits my family particularly closely.
My father worked for United Airlines for over 30 years, a stable, major carrier out there.
and for them to threaten downsizing reorganization or chapters 7, 11, or 13
is just beyond what we can imagine.
Stability just suddenly taken out impacts our life.
It's hard to even imagine those kinds of changes.
But that's our world, an uncertain world, most certainly.
But the uncertainties in our world that are certain that there's going to be uncertainties
and continue to be so, those come from the foibles and the failure of human beings,
but not from the hand of God.
Those are decisions by humans, not from God.
And in the midst of all that, how do we keep our head?
How do we stay stable in the midst of all those changes?
How do you live under God's blessing instead of in the vicissitudes of the decisions made by human beings?
How do we stay out of the trap of riding that roller coaster with the world?
How do we stay close to the Lord under His blessing in uncertain times?
Well, in this second message, as we talk about stewardship,
I think we have some answers to share this morning.
And I just want to say, if you want blessing in your life, listen to this message.
But more importantly, do this message.
It's one thing to hear it.
It's another thing to do it.
And the Scriptures teach that.
Be doers of the Word, says James 1, verse 22.
Be doers of the Word and not merely hearers who deceive themselves.
Will we as Fullerton first be doers of God's Word?
I'd like for us to consider a man who struggled with doing God's Word.
It comes out of Mark chapter 10.
And I will read this.
Follow along in your Bibles around the screen.
In the New Living Translation, Mark 10 verse 17.
As he was starting out on a trip, a man came running up to Jesus, knelt down, and asked,
Good teacher, what should I do to get eternal life?
Why do you call me good?
Jesus asked.
Only God is truly good.
But as for your question, you know the commandments.
Do not murder, do not commit adultery, do not steal, do not testify falsely, do not cheat.
Honor your father and mother.
Teacher, the man replied, I've obeyed all these commandments since I was a child.
Jesus felt genuine love for this man and looked at him.
You lack only one thing, he told him.
Go and sell all you have and give the money to the poor and you will have treasure in heaven.
Then come, follow me.
At this the man's face fell and he went sadly away because he had many possessions.
From the other recordings of this event, from the other gospel writers,
we know that this man who came to Jesus was young.
We know he was a religious leader.
We know he was rich.
And in various editorial titles in Scripture, he's referred to as the rich young ruler.
So let's talk about that.
First of all, he was rich.
He had money.
And with money comes options.
Options to do what you'd please.
With wealth, you can pretty much do whatever you want.
And that's not a bad thing, is it?
You can grow, you can further yourself, you can see the world.
You can do many things with wealth.
Wealth can be a good thing.
It can give you phenomenal opportunities that others do not have.
It can give you opportunities to bless others in ways that others cannot do.
Wealth can be a wonderful thing.
The man was a religious leader, a ruler.
In other words, this man had influence.
He was a leader.
He could make things happen within those that he led.
And I think from the text, if you read it carefully, I think he was a nice guy.
I really do.
He was respectful as he approached Jesus.
He knelt before him, a sign of submission.
And Jesus had great compassion for him.
And just putting those two things together, I seem to sense that he was probably a nice guy.
A nice, rich leader who was young.
Matthew 19.20 says that he was a young man.
And a young man or woman, they have time on their side.
This man had a lot of opportunities.
He had money, he had some power, perhaps a charismatic personality.
He had time.
He had, in the world's eyes, a lot of things in his favor.
I think I would have liked him.
I probably would have invited him to church and enjoyed him.
I think we might even nominate him to the trustee board.
He's a good, rich, young ruler.
This is the kind of guy we want on our team.
And he asks a very important question.
He asks the all-important question.
He asked the $64,000 question, what should I do to obtain eternal life?
And after demonstrating that he knew the Scriptures, had done all that's required by the law,
Jesus said that he lacked one thing.
And that's all it takes, isn't it?
One thing.
And that's my first point this morning.
One thing can make the difference.
One thing.
It's amazing how one small thing can cause a disaster or bring about a triumph.
The space shuttle Challenger, one crack in the O-rings,
brought down the most sophisticated piece of machinery that human beings had ever developed,
not to mention losing the lives of the seven astronauts aboard.
One crack, one thing brought it down.
One crack of a bat can change history.
Turn a game.
Change the World Series.
One small thing.
Amen.
Amen.
That's a good place for an amen.
May there be more cracks of bats this afternoon in our favor.
It's amazing the power of one small thing, isn't it?
One moment in time can change history.
One moment in your time can change your history.
One decision to follow Jesus Christ can change your life forever,
both here and for literally ever and ever.
And one stubborn refusal to acknowledge Jesus as director of heaven and earth
can produce the most miserable eternity imaginable.
One small thing can change your life.
It's amazing the power of one thing.
It only takes one thing to keep you out of heaven.
For the young man, the rich young ruler, it was one thing.
One thing.
He was in love with his possessions.
He was in love with his position.
He was in love with his pride.
And he walked away from Jesus downcast.
He wanted eternal life, but he wanted the tangible goodies even more.
It's been said this.
He wasn't willing to let go of the gold.
He wasn't willing.
There's a deeper principle at work here.
And I want us to get to this truth.
To get, you have to give.
To get, you have to give.
It's a biblical idea.
Matthew 10, verse 39, Jesus says,
If you cling to your life, you will lose it.
But if you give it up for me, you will find it.
Mark 10 31 but many who are first will be last and the last first one simple
thing can make all the difference now what would have happened if this man had
decided yes he would sell everything give it to the poor and come and follow
Jesus what would have happened at that moment if he said yes fair enough Lord
Lord, I'll do it.
And I can imagine him perhaps getting up and running off,
grabbing his checkbook and getting ready to dump it all.
He's heading to the ATM.
He's got the card out.
He's going to follow through.
And I can almost imagine Jesus saying,
It's okay, stop.
I now have your heart.
Perhaps Jesus would have said,
It's okay, I just want to know that you do it.
Actually, we're going to use your wealth for these things.
You don't know, but I have a suspicion that Jesus would have let him keep it all.
And it's easy for us, isn't it, to sit here and say, boy, I'd give it all for Jesus.
Really?
Okay, now I'm going to be nasty.
If you can't give up one-tenth of your income to Jesus, are you sure you're going to be able to sell it all?
Those who are tithing are a lot closer to that reality, aren't they, than those who don't.
Is Jesus truly Lord of your life?
Is Jesus the master of your possessions?
Is he really?
Do you love your wealth more than Jesus?
Do you really trust him to take care of you when you give him what he's asking of you?
And I've discovered in my life as a Christian that to follow Jesus requires some dying.
We've talked about that.
It requires some dying, some plowing under.
But you know, when things are plowed under, they sprout back to new life and they grow.
One thing can make the difference.
Number two, second principle.
about God's blessing is that obedience brings blessings. Obedience brings blessings. When I say
that, I realize that I sound like a health and wealth preacher, and I realize that that sounds
strange to say because you know that I certainly am not a health and wealth preacher, but I believe
the principle still is true. Obedience brings blessings. When you obey God, blessings do come,
And when you disobey God, blessings don't come.
I think the whole Scripture, from A to Z, Alpha and Omega, Genesis to Revelation,
all of it would affirm that reality.
When you obey God, there are blessings.
When you disobey God, there are non-blessings or curses, bummers, bad things.
Follow God, good things. Disobey God, bad things.
That seems to be the warp and woof of the Scripture all the way through.
Moses in the wilderness, Israelites, obey God, blessing, disobey God, curses.
Kings, nation follows God, blessings, rebel against God, curses.
It just goes through the prophets.
It goes through the whole New Testament as well.
Obey God, blessings, ignore God, curses, and anti-blessings.
Blessing and judgment came as a result of following God.
Matthew 6.33,
Your heavenly Father already knows your needs.
And He will give you all you need from day to day
if you live for Him
and make the kingdom of God your primary concern.
We know that verse traditionally like this,
but seek first His kingdom and His righteousness
and all these things shall be added unto you.
You know it. You've heard it.
But do you believe it?
Do we really believe that God will provide for us and take care of us
when we stretch and give him what he's asking of us?
Do you believe it enough to change your lifestyle
so you can be obedient and give the Lord the tithe?
And I know this is tough.
And I know that you are just squirming
and wish I'd get out of the pulpit and stop this horrendous onslaught.
Oh, please, it's almost over, isn't it?
No, not yet.
I'm only on page six.
Our money is a sacred area, and that's why Jesus talked about it so much.
Because it's so close to us.
And I really believe that what we believe is reflected in how we use our money.
I really have come to see that in my own life.
I believe it's true in your lives as well.
Let's talk about something right here.
Last year at our annual meeting, we voted as a church body
to approve a large increase in our budget.
And we jumped from a number in the low fives to $600,000 in one bump.
That was a 20% increase.
And the council said, God can do this through us.
We're going to buy off.
And unanimously, the council said, we're doing this.
We presented that to you at the meeting last year in January,
and we voted to take on that kind of budget.
Now, let's be honest.
At first glance, $600,000 budget seems really large.
It really does.
And those numbers just seem astronomical to some of us.
But you know what?
They're really not.
Let me tell you why not.
Because let me get really straight with you.
If everybody in this church who actually call themselves members of this ministry
and followers of Jesus Christ, devoted to him as leader and Lord of your life,
if we took God seriously and all of us tithed whatever God has blessed us with,
we would have a budget over a million dollars.
Over a million dollars.
And I scratch my head and think all the things that God could do with a budget over a million dollars.
The kinds of staff we could hire to do amazing things in this church
and in this community with a million dollars.
And we're a little over half of that.
and as we're running behind, I just get sad
because I think it's tragic because when God speaks to the council
and the council wrestles with God together and what we think
God wants us to stretch and to do and then for us to be disobedient
and to say, well, I trust you sort of but not really and to
hold back and we struggle with our budget and I have to write nasty letters and I hate
doing that type of stuff. I would rather come up here every year
and say, you're giving too much.
It's okay.
Calm down.
We've got a million two.
We don't even need that.
A million one is all we need.
So go ahead.
You take that home.
Boy, I'd love to say that to you.
I really would.
So I sit here and I say, Lord, you can do 600.
You can do a lot more.
I've got a lot bigger dreams.
The council's got a lot bigger dreams.
We're just getting started here in Fullerton.
21st century has just begun.
And there's lost people all around that need to be reached and discipled and trained and sent back out.
I want to host a whole flock of ministries and missionaries.
Not just a few.
I want to pack this place out three times.
I've shared with you before, our ministry here can handle 1,200 people in this building.
Two or three services, a few over there.
We've got to go there.
We've got to go there.
And beyond that, I want to plant churches.
I have such big dreams for this church as a leading church in our denomination.
We are being looked at by everybody else as to what God is doing here.
Do you realize as we taught seminars, as we led seminars in this training in Vegas,
that pastors and leaders came up to us and said,
tell us what you're doing.
Teach us, pastor, youth pastors, everybody.
What's happening there?
What are we doing?
And I'm excited to be a leader, to train, and to lead as a denomination.
And then I come back and go, man, we're not even making our budget.
and I get frustrated by that.
$600,000 should be a spit in the bucket for us
and I want to go bigger
and I'm just going to challenge you
to get serious with God
and to say, Lord, what are we going to do?
And friends, we got a big old debt hanging over
that we're going to pay down in the next three years
so we can be free and clear of that kind of thing
so we can really go after ministry
in some powerful ways.
And it's going to be challenging three years
but I think we're going to learn
what it means to trust Jesus together
and hold each other accountable.
It's going to be fun and exciting
and I'm looking forward to the next three years
as we dive into that.
But I want us to be faithful
and to be stewards of what God has given us.
We are the managers.
God is the blesser.
Do we trust him?
Are we going to be obedient?
Or do we just want to go to Blockbuster
and hold on to the five bucks?
It's really, what are the 50 bucks?
What are the 500 bucks?
Or whatever case you're in,
Are we going to hold back, or are we going to trust the Lord?
Seek first God's kingdom, and the rest will be added unto you.
Do you believe that?
We either believe it or not.
We either believe it or we don't.
And as I shared before, I'm living proof of that reality.
As much as I yell and scream at you, I've sat where you are, I've held on to my checkbook,
and I've said, but Lord, you don't understand.
I've given everything to this church.
I stay up until 2 a.m. all the time with these kids.
I don't have enough money.
I can barely pay the cable bill.
Do I need a cable bill?
Good question.
I've sat where you are.
I've looked at the bills.
I've looked at things in my own life.
And when Robin and I got serious about saying, Lord, you first and everything else second,
then blessing came into our life.
Not just material, but blessing overall.
But it started when we really stopped holding back from God and began to trust Him.
And we have discovered in our own life, when you trust Him with your finances and He meets you there,
it's easier to trust Him in other areas of your life as well.
But the financial seems to be the most potent because it's the closest to us
and it's right there in front of us all the time.
So I know where you are.
I'm struggling.
I know the pressure you're feeling right now.
I've been there.
Sometimes I'm still there.
But I'm challenging you and I'm challenging me to be obedient to Jesus
and to give him his due and allow him to grow and minister through the church
and bless you back, tenfold will you be obedient.
Obedience brings blessings, Luke chapter 6.
If you forgive others, you'll be forgiven.
If you give, you will receive.
Your gift returns to you full measure, pressed down, shaken together
to make room for more and running over.
Whatever measure you use in giving, large or small,
it will be used to measure what is given back to you.
Proverbs chapter 3, honor the Lord with your wealth
and with the best part of everything your land produces.
Then he's going to fill your barns with grain,
your vats with overflow, with the finest wine.
Proverbs chapter 11, the generous prosper and are satisfied.
The generous prosper.
Those who refresh others become refreshed.
To get, you've got to give.
Blessed are those who are generous, says Proverbs 22,
because they feed the poor, in verse 9.
Blessed are those who are generous.
You will receive blessing and happiness and peace when you are generous.
And here's the doozy.
Malachi chapter 3.
Should people cheat God?
And God says, yet you have cheated me.
But you ask, what do you mean?
When do we ever cheat you?
You have cheated me of the tithes and offerings due to me.
You are under a curse for the whole nation has been cheating me.
Bring all your tithes into the storehouse
so there will be enough food in my temple.
If you do, says the Lord Almighty, I will open the windows of heaven for you.
I will pour out a blessing so great you won't have enough room to take it in.
Try it.
Let me prove it to you.
As I've said before, that's the only verse in the Bible I know where God says, test me in this.
God cursed the whole nation over this issue.
Curses or blessings.
Curses or blessings.
I personally want to live under blessing.
That's the selfish self-preservationist part of me.
I want to live under blessing.
Blessings are curses.
I'll take blessings.
Thank you very much.
What do I need to do?
Trust the Lord.
Got it.
Okay.
Good.
Obedience brings blessings.
Is the Bible true or not?
Do we really want to follow Jesus?
I just want to say it again.
If you don't put the Lord first in your finances, you're not going to receive all that God has for you.
Simple.
And one thing can make a difference.
Obedience brings blessing.
And finally this, team God, number three.
Whose team are you on?
I want to be on God's team.
I want our church to be on God's team.
And Paul, in a great letter about joy and contentment,
challenges us and wants to know what team we're on.
Philippians 4.19,
At the same God who takes care of me, says Paul while writing from prison,
will supply all your needs from his glorious riches,
which have been given to us in Christ Jesus.
How many needs?
All your needs.
It doesn't say all of our wants, all of our needs.
We do confuse needs and wants in our culture, don't we?
I need to have that.
Maybe not.
I want that.
That's fair.
But God will take care of your needs, it says.
So do you want to be on God's team and partner with him and trust him, allow him to bless you?
On God's team, all the players do their part.
watching the Angels this year.
Here's a team
where I have not perceived
that any one particular player
is a superstar more than the others.
I mean, there's some really good players,
but the egos seem to be in check on that team.
There seems to be a real team spirit
where that monkey rally thing comes out
and boom, those guys work together.
And they encourage each other.
And they're going to the top
because they've been a team together.
It's not one superstar taking the ball
and carrying it through and the rest riding on their coattails.
They're all involved, and they're all into it,
encouraging the other, knocking those arms and the fist thing and all that stuff.
They love each other, and it seems to be an image of the body of Christ in some ways,
working together to go to where God is calling us to go.
But we all have to do our part.
And if some of us are riding on the coattails of others,
we're missing being a part of the team,
and we miss the blessing that God can pour on the individual life
and you hold back the team from going all the way.
Okay, team players, are we going to be team players?
And I'm going to ask you this in conclusion.
Will you go home this week and think and pray about your stewardship
both this year and the next?
Will you get really serious before God and take your checkbook
and if need be your spouse, if that's appropriate,
and just kneel before the bed and lay it there and say,
Lord God, we're going to put you first.
Help us to do that and to trust you with that.
In a couple weeks, we're going to be pledging our commitments for next year.
It's an important part of our budgeting process.
I want us to make our budget.
I want us to not just make it.
I want us to blow through it so we have reserves before we even start next year.
I hate going into the next year writing off a big chunk of money on the books
and sliding to the next year and evening it all out,
but we didn't make it.
I hate that.
And God's people, we shouldn't be living like that.
We really shouldn't be like that.
We could have a million dollars.
Six is nothing if we just get serious with God.
And I just can't wait to see what God's going to do through you
as we get prayerfully down our knees and go after this.
I am so looking forward to seeing your pledge cards coming in
and what God's going to do in this church
and how we're going to raise up new people and train new people
and grab on a new staff and just send and just keep being a leader in this region
and being all that God's calling us to be.
I can't wait to see that.
And so I'm going to pray a blessing on you
as you ask God to bless you as you bless him by putting him first.
Let's pray.
Father, I love this congregation and I know the struggle in putting you first in our finances.
Father, I've been there.
Sometimes I'm still there because, boy, it really puts this belief thing to the test.
But, Lord, I pray that we as a church body would be faithful,
that your spirit would right now be moving and touching us and convicting us
and encouraging us, showing us how we can trust you.
And, Lord, I pray you're going to meet their needs and bless them.
And through our obedience that we're going to see amazing things happen
and that we'll be even more encouraged to trust you more
in all kinds of areas of ministry
and that we'll really be the faithful beacon
of hope and love
that I believe, Lord, you're calling us to be.
So, Lord, we look forward to seeing that happen.
So, Lord, take the truth of these scriptures
and make them real.
To me and to each one in this room,
make these scriptures real
and I pray we'd be faithful
and trust you.
Help us step out of our zone of comfort
and may you meet us right there
and hold us up.
So, Father, pour out your blessing, I pray, as we become obedient to you.
As we're just meditating on those thoughts, I just want to say to those this morning as our heads are bowed,
that if you, even though you've sat through a sermon and a message about giving,
you're realizing, though, that this Lord Jesus that we're asking, that we give our whole lives to,
and you realize you haven't done that yet.
You've been holding back.
You know he's there.
You realize that he's true.
Perhaps you need to just, in the quietness of your heart right now,
just pray this prayer.
I would encourage you to pray along with me.
Dear God, I realize that you are the director of heaven
and the leader and the forgiver of my life.
And I want to start fresh and new and live a life that's under blessing
instead of where I've been, which I can clearly see now is under curses.
I want to be free of all of that and turn and be all about you and your team.
and I want new life that starts now
and ends in forever
that never ends
so I'm yours
and I pray this in Jesus name
as we're standing to sing our final song
