It's fun to watch gifts and talents being used in our midst. That's exciting. Welcome this morning.
This is the day the Lord has made. Amen? Amen. Amen.
Well, I'm excited about sharing this message today. I think it's very important.
I'm excited about the topic for the next few weeks. So hang on.
I think one of the biggest questions that we can ask about life is this.
why in the world are we here?
Why are we here?
Why are you here?
And we can answer this biblically.
We can say we are here to love God
and to manage His creation.
To love God.
To take care of the world
on behalf of God as stewards unto the Lord.
How do I love God?
And how do I manage the creation?
We can answer by saying this, by following Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior and to
exercise your spiritual gifts.
And you can answer, I love Jesus, but what in the world are you talking about when it
comes to spiritual gifts?
And that's where we're going.
Today and the next few weeks, what are spiritual gifts?
What are your spiritual gifts?
How do you use them?
What are they for?
What difference will they make in your life?
Important, I believe, and compelling questions that we must answer.
And we will seek to answer them and explore them for your joy and for God's glory.
So hang on, and here we go.
Number one, why focus on spiritual gifts?
Why in the world would we even explore this?
The Bible says in 1 Corinthians 12, in verse 1, I share it with you.
Paul writes,
Now concerning spiritual gifts, brothers and sisters, I do not want you to be uninformed.
Uninformed.
For some, ignorance is bliss, right?
Some things you'd rather, I just don't want to know about that.
I'll carry on.
I don't want to know.
And that may be a way to live life for some, and it works in certain circumstances.
But I don't think in this area that's a path we should follow.
Spiritual gifts is not a place for us to tune out and to be ignorant of.
Three reasons.
One, when we ignore spiritual gifts, when we become ignorant of spiritual gifts,
friends, we miss out on joy and blessing in using those gifts.
We miss out on joy.
We miss out on blessing from the Lord as we use them.
I'll submit that we'll find meaning and purpose and joy in serving the Lord as we use spiritual gifts.
I have found that people that know what their gifts are, that are using them on a regular basis,
they generally have a sense of God's calling in their life.
They have a healthy sense of self-esteem.
They know what they're doing, where they're going, and why.
What a blessing that is.
They know where they fit in God's kingdom.
And I would submit again, that's an exciting place for us to be.
That's number one.
Two, you miss out if you're ignorant of spiritual gifts.
You miss out on being part of meaningfully building the church and growing the kingdom of God.
You miss out on being part of something holy and larger than yourself.
Oh, how fun that is.
I think also, number three, by ignoring our spiritual gifts.
This is important.
I think we are holding back God's means for effectiveness in the church today.
If God has called us as a mission, with a mission in the world to grow the church,
we must be effective in doing so.
I believe that God makes the church effective by gifting it with certain gifts to make it grow and be effective.
John MacArthur, a pastor in the valley next door, said this.
He says, no local congregation will be what it should be, what Jesus prayed that it would be,
what the Holy Spirit gifted it and empowered it to be
until the church understands spiritual gifts.
Strong statement.
True, I think, to the core.
To continue building this case to help us understand
why in the world we must explore spiritual gifts,
I want to share a portion of a video
of a gentleman that has blessed my life in many ways.
You're about to see Bill Hybels, the pastor of the largest church in America, started in a movie theater over 20 years ago.
And you're going to see him as he was speaking to the delegates of the American Baptist churches at our national convention in 1997.
It's a short clip.
The sound, of course, is him speaking to a hall of 5,000 people.
So it's not as clear as I'd like it to be,
but please listen to the message underneath.
So important and very powerful.
Bill Hybels.
A community of servants, men and women,
stewarding their spiritual gifts.
And every part of that is important.
We wanted to be a unified community of servants.
Today is an era of consumerism.
Christians move into a community.
They do some church shopping.
They rate the church by the preaching, by the music, by the youth.
They move in, sit down, and consume ministry.
Nothing is further from the heart of Christ.
The Apostle Paul used to start his letters by saying,
I, Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ.
This is fundamental to my identity.
My name is Paul.
My identity is that of a bondservant of Jesus Christ,
committed to the local church.
And we've said all the days of Willow Creek,
When you join the family of God here, you put the towel over your arm.
And the issue is not whether or not you're going to serve.
It's just where.
And then we teach people about spiritual gifts.
And you know what we actually discovered?
I mean, I may not say much of value tonight,
but what I'm going to say these next few moments is really deep.
Trust me, it's deep.
When we studied all about spiritual gifts, it dawned on us one day,
what do you mean it was in the mind of god for the church to be led by people with leadership
gifts and taught by people with teaching gifts and administrated by people with administration
gifts and shepherded by people with shepherding gifts that blew our minds it's what the scriptures
teach god's given me opportunity to teach all over the world teach church leaders all over
the world. And friends, I don't say this. I mean, I just say it to our embarrassment.
My unofficial estimate, there is not one percent of evangelical churches worldwide
that are organized according to spiritual gifts. I don't get it. When churches are not led by
people with leadership gifts, there's trouble in the church. When churches aren't taught by
people with teaching gifts, that's trouble in the church. When the church is not administrated by
people with administration gifts, shepherded by people with shepherding. Boy, I'll tell you,
we caught on to that and we said, we can't mess much with other churches, but as for our church,
we're going to be a unified community of servants, men and women, stewarding their
spiritual gifts to the glory of God and the common good of the church. Did you catch how powerful
That principle is men and women stewarding their gifts that God has given for the glory of God and to grow the church.
And what really amazes me about that statement was, as Bill has taught around the world, he says, let me just say it again,
less than 1% of the churches, evangelical churches around the world, are organized by spiritual gifts.
People leading churches without leadership gifts.
People teaching who don't have teaching gifts.
And no wonder the church is in conflict, upside down, doing crazy things.
It's a powerful statement.
When they started that church, they began to say,
people with the various gifts will be organized that way that the gifts operate and are effective.
God's kingdom might grow.
Rick Warren has said this.
A local pastor of one of the other largest churches in America said this.
He said, for the church to grow, the pastor must give up the ministry.
And the people must give up the leadership.
That's also huge.
Pastors have to stop doing ministry, and the people have to stop leading.
It's got to be flipped around.
Let pastors who are gifted to lead, lead,
and let the people who are gifted for ministry do the ministry.
Then it spreads and it grows.
Otherwise, you continue to have churches of 75 people.
Friends, that's the average-sized church in America.
Did you know that?
75. When I go back east and I meet
with conferees and delegates and they find out we've got 400
people, they think we're a mega church. Because when they've
got 40 people in the pew every week, they think we are just
the cat's meow. And I think we're great. But we can be
a lot better. We're good, but we can be better. And my
sights are on a whole different plane. I don't want to grow from 400
to 420. I want to see spiritual gifts liberated
that this place explodes because people are finding
Christ throughout this community and getting whole in their spirit
and their bodies and their psyches and everything because people are gifted to do
ministry from this place. Small churches
become bigger ones if the pastor does the leading and the people will do the
ministry. You know, we've talked about that for years.
My first sermon I preached here was Ephesians chapter 4,
and I laid this principle out.
But it's hard to go from talking about it to living it out.
Because to live it out, you have to change how we think about
how we all interact with each other and how we interact with this place.
And now we're beginning to really look at these issues on a deep level.
Friends, I'm going to ask this question.
Are you ready to do the ministry?
Are you ready to be trained?
to do the ministry?
Are you ready to let God use you
in building up the kingdom of God?
It's not just the pastors that do the building
because we only can reach so deep and so far and so wide.
Are you ready to build God's kingdom
as he empowers you?
And as we pastors train you, are you ready?
We find joy in finding our spiritual gifts.
We see an effectiveness in the church rise.
That's why we focus on spiritual gifts.
Number two, let's define what they are.
What are spiritual gifts anyway?
They're special abilities given by God to his followers for the development of the church.
Some verses from Scripture, I think, will lay this out and build the case.
Romans chapter 12, Paul says this, verse 3,
As God's messenger, I give each of you this warning.
Be honest in your estimate of yourselves,
measuring your value by how much faith God has given you.
Just as our bodies have many parts and each part has a special function, so it is with Christ's body.
We are all parts of his one body and each of us has different work to do.
And since we are all one body in Christ, we belong to each other and each of us needs all the others.
God has given each of us the ability to do certain things well.
Friends, please hear this.
God has given each of you something, if not many things,
he wants you to do well in the kingdom.
Amen.
1 Peter 4.10
God has given gifts to each of you
from his great variety of spiritual gifts.
Now manage them well
so that God's generosity can flow through you.
Manage them well.
Use them.
Train yourself in them.
Experiment with them.
Grow with them.
But use them.
Manage them well.
For those who like to take notes, I've given you this definition.
You can take this down.
A spiritual gift is a special ability that God gives according to his grace to each member of the body of Christ
to be used for the development of the church.
That's what spiritual gifts are all about.
Before we go too far, I'd like for us also to hear what they're not.
Because there are other things we can confuse to be spiritual gifts.
Spiritual gifts are not natural talents.
They are not natural talents.
Everyone, whether you are a Christian or not, you have certain talents, certain natural
abilities that you simply have.
They give us self-identity.
They're usually physical.
They're something you can do well.
Spiritual gifts are not the same as natural talents.
Spiritual gifts are also not the same thing as the fruit of the Spirit.
Galatians chapter 5 lays out the fruit of the Spirit.
Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, and so forth.
Those are not spiritual gifts.
Those are fruit of the Spirit that are to be exercised, to be lived out in every believer's life.
As we mature in Christ, our lives should be filled more and more with love and joy and peace and patience and kindness.
And that's for all of us.
Spiritual gifts are different than the fruit of the Spirit.
The spiritual gifts are also not Christian roles that we might play.
Roles are mannerisms in which we participate as Christians.
We are all to be people of faith.
We are all to be people of prayer, of hospitality, of witness, and things like that.
These we just do in the natural course of following Jesus.
Certain roles that we play.
Spiritual gifts are not those roles.
And spiritual gifts, finally, are not what I'm going to just say are counterfeit gifts that we see in the world today.
There are people out there that can interpret omens, that channel spirits, that have extrasensory
perception, that talk with the dead on television, and all kinds of things like that.
Those are not spiritual gifts, as God defines from His Word.
Those are spiritual realities, and the Bible is very clear we are not to participate in
those realms.
You open yourself to very negative, demonic, spiritual oppression when you go there.
Those are not spiritual gifts as we are looking at here.
I'm not saying those are not real.
I'm saying they're not for followers of Jesus to participate in.
And friends, if you have opened your life to some of those issues, we need to pray and talk about that.
I don't mean to be hairy scary, but I want to say there are big spiritual issues in the world.
And when we dabble, we open ourselves to forces and spiritual realities that are not of God.
We know what spiritual gifts are now.
And we know, in a sense, what they are not.
So the question arises, okay, do I have one gift or more than one?
Each of us has at least one and probably more.
In the literature and the study of spiritual gifts, we talk about them as a gift mix.
Because certain gifts do tend to couple with other gifts.
And personality types play into this as well.
But spiritual gifts often come hooked together two or three at a time to make a package of ministry.
As I've been studying spiritual gifts and taking inventories and experimenting and talking with others and getting their wisdom,
I seem, this is just for me, I seem to have gifts in the area of teaching and wisdom, knowledge, leadership, and apostleship.
And I'm also testing out whether underneath I may have shepherding, discernment, and evangelism.
But those seem to be second tier.
Different gift mixes create different combinations of the kinds of ministry that are possible
and can be experienced with joy and effectiveness as God blesses each of you.
I hope I'm making you excited to discover how has God gifted me.
What a great joy it is to figure that out.
And so this morning, I'd like to begin in a three-part series.
and the 4th, on October 6th, you'll have an opportunity
to truly try and delve in and find out what your spiritual gifts
are all about. You will not want to miss any of this series, but you
must be here October 6th. Do you hear what I'm saying? You must
be here October 6th. Baseball games, football
games, doesn't matter, vacations, you must be here October
6th. We got it? Okay. Let's talk about
what we have termed as our the red gifts.
Why red?
Red is a color that reminds us
of what Jesus Christ did on the cross.
It can be thought of as a symbol of commitment to Jesus.
After all, it was Jesus' blood that flowed for us from the cross.
Red deeply connects with Jesus and his mission in the world.
And so we term the red gifts as gifts that help us proclaim the message of Jesus Christ
and help people grow in their knowledge of Jesus.
So we call them the red gifts.
And I'm going to share a list of these gifts.
I encourage you to just jot them down and perhaps flesh out these definitions
and begin to think, is the Lord using you perhaps in some of these areas?
And when? October 6th, you'll get to be here to really find out at a deeper level how God is gifting you.
The red gifts begin, and I've just listed the first one this way, evangelism.
evangelism evangelism those with the gift of evangelism are enabled to communicate the gospel
to non-christians to pre-christians in a manner that is conducive for them to come to faith
billy graham bless that man's heart you know what as a preacher sometimes i get really frustrated
with Billy Graham. Because I could have said that, and yet thousands come to find Jesus.
He doesn't say anything new or radical, but he is gifted by God. I sound like Salieri sometimes,
and he's Mozart, and it drives me crazy. I could have said that, but I wasn't gifted
to say it with his power and his persona and God's spirit on his life. It's a spiritual gift.
It's amazing to watch.
Amazing to watch.
There are some people that can get in a conversation with somebody else in the most natural way,
and the next thing you know, they are pouring out their life to Christ.
It's amazing.
Now, that doesn't say that because they're gifted, that takes the responsibility off of us.
We're all to be witnesses.
That's a role that we play.
But there are people who are specially gifted in being able to connect and share and talk and people come to Christ just like that.
Research shows that about 10% of any given congregation has this gift.
And as I may have shared before, I'm bothered by that because we've got to figure out who you are.
because you need to stop whatever else you're doing and use that gift.
And we joke around here talking about councils and boards and stuff.
We've got to fire you from everything you're doing and get you out there using your gift.
That's when the church gets effective, when you're gifted using your gift.
People with evangelism gifts are good at preaching.
They're good at visitation ministry and missions, church planting, outreach community, outreach ministries to the community, to children, to internationals, you name it.
It doesn't matter who, but they're good at communicating the message to people, and people come to Christ.
Ten percent of you have this gift, and many of you perhaps don't even know it.
We must find out who you are.
You must find out who you are.
It's my mission to find out who you are.
Evangelism.
Others are gifted in the area of missions.
It's different than the first one we talked about
because missionaries, by definition, take it to a second culture.
They have a special ability given by God to work in and adapt to a second culture.
They love to be overseas.
They don't feel right being in their own culture.
They must, by God's design, be somewhere else in a different culture working and planting churches and doing ministry.
Now that also might mean, though, simply working across town in a different culture here in the United States.
You don't have to fly around the world, but your heartbeat, if you have this gift of missionary and missions,
is you must be in a second culture, a different culture,
working amongst those people in building up the church.
Some of you have this gift.
The gift of apostle means that you are recognized by churches
and a variety of churches in having responsibility and spiritual oversight in those churches
and strategically planning the growth of those churches.
This is beyond the local level of the church here.
It's that farsighted perspective.
I believe Dale Salico, our executive minister of our region and member of this church,
I believe he has this gift of apostleship.
He is a man with vision and abilities to grow the churches
and empower them with whatever is needed to grow this region of churches as an apostle.
They often work in denominational and larger perspectives.
Counseling.
This gift enables Christians to serve others through comfort and encouragement and admonition.
Why?
So they can experience help and healing and comfort.
But it's for a short time.
For a short time.
Short-term perspective.
Research also says that about 40% of those who have this gift also have the gift of hospitality.
And you can see how those two come together very well.
Folks who have the gift of counseling need to be in hospital ministry, counseling team,
to be a gift counselor, helping others discern their spiritual gifts.
They should be on prayer teams and in family counseling, ministering to various age groups
and prison ministries and things like that.
Some of you have the gift of counseling,
and we need to empower you and develop you
and send you out for being more effective in that gift.
The next gift in the red category is leadership.
It enables Christians to set goals for the church
and to communicate them in a way that others get on board
and jump in and want to be about what that church is doing.
People naturally follow the leader, and if you've got leadership gifts,
people are following you as you help build the church.
Pastors, elders, worship leaders, department leaders,
long-term planning strategists for the church should have the gift of leadership.
I contend that pastors today without leadership are in trouble.
Churches without good leaders with the gift of leadership are in trouble today.
Shepherding.
Shepherding is a gift that enables a Christian to assume a long-term personal responsibility
for the spiritual well-being of a group of people.
It can happen at a church level.
It can happen even at a small group level.
They're the ones that are committed over the long haul to see that this group of people
grow and are healed and develop and mature and are nurtured.
Pastors can have this gift, not always.
Not all pastors even have the gift of shepherding, and that's okay.
They have others on the staff that have the gift of shepherding
because they may have a different gift of leadership and apostleship and other things.
As Bill mentioned in the video, the shepherds need to be found and released to care for people
and encourage them and build them up over the long term.
Shepherds.
Shepherds are involved in children's church, small group leaders, youth ministry, assimilation ministries, getting people plugged into this place, training programs and so forth and so on.
It's the gift of shepherding.
Some of you have this gift and you haven't even begun to use it.
It's my goal that you discover it and develop it.
The gift of teaching.
The gift of teaching allows that a Christian communicates the truth of the Scriptures
in such a manner that others learn and it contributes to the health of the church.
Give you an example.
My wife is a teacher, a professional teacher.
And she is phenomenal in a classroom with children of a variety of ages.
But she and I both agree, she doesn't necessarily have the gift of teaching when it comes to adults,
when it comes to biblical spiritual things.
It's not her gift.
She doesn't want to do that.
It doesn't burn in her soul.
And when she does try, it's okay.
Whereas others just naturally can speak from the scriptures and teach,
and people's hearts are electrified and their lives change.
I think I have that gift.
My wife does not.
But I would never go in a classroom with 24 kids staring at me.
No way.
And she would die a thousand deaths standing here staring at you.
So it works out well this way.
Teachers who have the spiritual gift of teaching must teach in the church.
And those who don't have the gift of teaching should not teach
because God is not empowering them to teach spiritual things that life change happens.
The gift of helps.
The gift of helps is whereby God empowers Christians to place their own gifts at the disposal of other Christians,
thus allowing that other Christian to use their gift more effectively.
People with the gift of helps tend to focus on an individual
and allow somebody, that person they're focusing on,
to do their gift even more effectively.
I think about, just off the cuff,
John Maxwell has a man who is his prayer partner
that follows John Maxwell,
great pastor, teacher, leader, all over the nation.
He follows him and he sits in the front row
of every performance and he prays,
interceding for John.
He has prayer gifts, I believe,
but he has the gift of helps that he might empower John to be more effective.
It's an amazing synergy as these two men work together for the kingdom of God.
When I was a college pastor years ago,
there was a young man in the church that was gifted in a lot of areas,
in administration and phone calls and computers and things,
and I was really out of touch with some of that stuff.
And he just came every day for a couple hours
and served me and freed me up to do other things that I was gifted for.
And he loved being in the background to help me lead and teach
and took over other things that I struggled with.
And he wanted no recognition, no kudos, no public acknowledgement of any kind.
I believe he had the gift of helps, for he truly helped me
and we built the kingdom more effectively because of it.
Similar to the gift of helps is the gift of service.
This is one that's similar to helps,
however, it enables the person to take their talents and gifts
and apply them to a body of believers,
to an organization, towards a group.
These people have an eye to what needs to be done,
and they do it.
In the background, no public kudos, nothing like that.
They simply move in and do what needs to be done.
And the church desperately needs these people as the backbone for what happens.
And they do what needs to be done.
Many of our gentlemen in our technical ministry have the gift of service.
Ken Lee has the gift of service.
He doesn't need to ask, he just sees it and it's done.
Kent Loomis has the gift of service.
He's never even heard me say that to his face.
There you are.
But you do.
They don't know why.
They just have a heart to see the background things done that the kingdom of God might grow.
And they don't want the recognition.
I'm always giving it to them, but they don't want it.
But they just do what needs to be done.
Because God has gifted them for that.
And when they're not serving like that, they're itchy and antsy because they're not using their spiritual gift.
Praise God for those with the gift of service in our midst, and more of you have it.
I want to help you discover it and discern it.
This last one under red gifts is the one that most people groan at.
And you might do a collective groan here.
Here we go.
The gift of singleness.
There are some people.
See, you groan because you don't have it.
This doesn't sound good to you at all because you don't have the gift.
The gift of singleness is for those who are gifted that they might do ministry more effectively
as a single individual than as a married person.
The reality is, when you're married and when you add kids to the picture, you are busy
and your interests are divided in a variety of areas.
But if you have the gift of singleness coupled with other gifts, usually in the area of church
planting, cross-cultural missions, and the like. You are able to deal with all the craziness and
the flexibility required to use those other gifts without the pressures of family. I've met a few of
these people. I've heard about them. I've read about them as well. I read about a scholar who
is able to do deep work and focus in his work because God has gifted them, that man, in
the area of singleness.
He's not bitter.
He doesn't want those responsibilities.
He is perfectly happy and fulfilled serving the Lord without the other distractions.
And for others, that sounds awful because you don't have the gift of singleness.
Let me just conclude by this.
You might be overwhelmed, but that's okay.
Because it's my hope that in the following weeks this will become clearer and clearer
and that October 6th, you'll figure it out.
Now when was that?
October 6th.
You'll all be here.
You can grow in your spiritual gifts.
You may be gifted in an area.
But as you flex that muscle and work it and strengthen it,
that gift will become even more effective.
So just because you have a gift does not mean you don't have to practice and use it and experiment with it.
You continually need to grow and work with it.
And I would encourage you as you're discovering these gifts to seek opportunities that are consistent with using the gift
and experiment and get in there and try and stretch it and work the gift.
And of course, you need to have a continued attitude in your life of godliness.
These are not for your self-aggrandizement.
The gifts are not for you to call attention to yourself.
Some of the gifts, when utilized, may put you in public arenas.
And it takes a humble person to be able to realize that they are gifted by God
and that they owe everything they're doing to God
and they must keep their character pure
so that God can use them
because it's not about them.
I like this final quote from a man named Elmer Towns.
He said this.
He said,
Do everything you can until you're 40,
then settle down and do what you do best.
That's good advice, isn't it?
Do everything you can until you're 40
and then settle down and do what you do best.
I think that applies to spiritual gifts.
Because when you figure out what God has gifted you to do,
you'll stop trying all the other stuff.
You'll get focused.
Because there you're discovering that that's where you fit in the body of Christ.
We're all parts of a body.
And as Paul illustrated, we're all connected together.
And when some of you aren't using your gifts, the body is sick.
When we all begin to discover and use the gifts, the body grows healthy.
You find joy because you realize that God is using you to be effective in the kingdom.
And what a privilege and high honor that is.
So friends, discover what God has given you to do best.
and focus there and enjoy it for the glory of God's kingdom.
Will you discover your spiritual gifts?
Will you commit to be empowered and to use them
and to be trained in them for God's glory
and the growth of the kingdom?
I hope so.
Let's pray.
Father, thank you for the encouragement of the realities
of how you gift believers for service and for the kingdom.
And I pray that this congregation, over the next four weeks,
would have a heightened awareness of where they're gifted,
of how they plug into your kingdom,
and what you have for them as a body of believers and individually.
And I pray that these messages would be used by your spirit
to get deep into our hearts and souls,
and help us figure out where we belong
and that in so doing we would see
an increased sense of joy and service
and an increased effectiveness.
So Father, use the next few weeks
and this time of reflection on gifts
to speak to your people.
And then Father, I pray that we as a church body
would be faithful to releasing these gifts
to these people in this community
that your kingdom may grow far and wide
and that Fullerton First Baptist would be a place that the enemy would have to reckon with
because we are your people doing what you've called us to do.
So Lord, I look forward to seeing what you're going to do.
Speak to us, teach us, and help us find our place.
Now for a moment, I would like just to have your eyes continue to be closed
and our heads bowed for a moment
because I want to speak to all of us on a little different topic
and it just relates to this,
that you might be excited about these spiritual gifts,
you might be intrigued,
and you want to get on board with that,
but you haven't yet decided that Jesus is the way,
that he's the one to follow,
that he's where real life is found.
And you may have heard of him,
but now you're sensing in your spirit
it's time to give your life to him
and then to have the Holy Spirit give you
your gift or gifts.
And if you're ready to find the Lord this morning
and to leave knowing that he loves you and has forgiven you
and that you'll be with the Lord forever,
that eternal life starts now,
you might pray something like this.
Dear God, I know that you're real
and I now understand that you died for me,
that through Jesus Christ you took away all of the wrongs I've done
and that you allow me to start over
and have a clean slate.
and I look forward to following you
and discovering my spiritual gift
that you're putting in me right now
and that I might use it and follow you for your glory.
So as far as I know how,
I want to follow you every day.
Teach me more
and thank you for your grace.
In Jesus' name, amen.
