He shares our germs together. So we stay together, but boy, we are sick together. I don't feel so bad. I just don't sound too good. So you just sort of hang in there with me, and if the last few words of a sentence drop off, just, you know, look up, and I'll try and repeat that.
But we're going to have a good time this morning because God's word is going to come alive.
In my weakness, Jesus is still on top.
So with that, let me just share a funny story.
Some of you may have heard this.
In my pastoral training at Fuller Seminary, I took a course,
and I was a chaplain's intern at a county general over there in downtown L.A. for a course.
So for 12 weeks, we met weekly at the hospital.
We went to all the different wards, all the different dimensions of the hospital.
went into pretty much everything, and we weren't so much training to be chaplains of hospitals
as we were just learning all about life and death and bodies and machines
so that we can work out the willies, if you know what I mean,
so we can go to the hospital and minister to people and understand what's happening.
And I will never forget many of those experiences, and if you ever have coffee with me,
I'll tell you some pretty interesting stories about that, but I'll save those for later.
But I want to share one this morning, and some of you may have heard this,
but it just struck me so powerfully.
I'll never forget this.
He took us, there was only four of us,
out to a cemetery and crematorium
towards the end of the course
to kind of show us those dimensions
of the life experience.
And so we met the gentleman who ran the crematorium
and we saw some things there
and I won't go into all of that,
but we stepped outside and we looked at some
caskets and various things
and he was describing these different accoutrements.
And somewhere in this,
Phil Manley, the professor and the chaplain that was in charge of this experience
kind of disappeared. And we were walking down with the curator
of the cemetery there and he was showing us some things. And then he went back and he
showed us the coffin and he talked about, you know, the cost and this and that.
And then he opened it. At which point there was a body
inside that came alive. Because Phil Manley, my
professor and friend, was laying in the casket, came up and
scared the living everything out of us.
It takes a few seconds to realize there's a body and then who is it
and suddenly as it sits up, we just about lost it.
I will never forget that experience and he just, he never
let us have the end of that one, looking at the blanched white faces
of these young pastoral interns as he popped up from death.
That was a funny encounter in the theme of death
but obviously the discourse about death is actually very serious.
And in all seriousness, when I read the newspaper often
and I read the accounts of young people that perish in auto accidents
as a result of their just fooling around
and hear the grief in the families and the high schools
as they struggle with that,
I realize that we have this idea of our invincibility
and then we're struck with our mortality.
Perhaps you know someone who has died recently.
We all know somebody, and eventually it will be us.
And we don't want to ponder our mortality.
That's a dismal experience.
We don't do it often, but world events, even currently,
cause us to begin to grapple with these heavy and very real issues.
But you know, every age struggles with the finality of the grave.
And let's be honest, we live in a death-denying society.
We simply put that away to professionals.
We don't deal with it as a culture very well at all.
In fact, we kind of sanitize the old experience.
And especially in Orange County, we'd rather talk about tummy tucks and Botox
instead of the grip of the grave and the reality therein.
But no matter how we dress it up, the raw vulnerability of our lives is revealed
when you walk through a cemetery.
We're invincible until we walk through a cemetery.
And you realize we're all going to be there someday.
And we really have to grapple with our own struggle with death and our fear of death.
In fact, the Bible speaks about this natural fear that human beings have about death.
In Hebrews chapter 2, it says in verse 14 and 15,
Because God's children are human beings made of flesh and blood,
Jesus also became flesh and blood by being born in human form.
For only as a human being could he die.
And only by dying could he break the power of the devil who had the power of death.
Only in this way could he deliver those who have lived all their lives as slaves to the fear of dying.
We live as slaves to fear of dying.
And Jesus has come to break that spell, to break that fear, to give us hope.
But dying is natural, and the fear of dying is natural for human beings.
In a really remarkable book called Beyond Death by Gary Habermas and J.P. Moreland here of Talbot right next door,
they describe four reasons why we fear death.
And one of them is the potential for pain.
And we do struggle.
That's probably one of the most gripping parts of death is the fear of pain in the end.
They also argue that saying goodbye to loved ones is a part of it that makes us deeply fear death.
In addition to the apprehension of the unknown, what will happen when we come to the end?
And for some, the fear of being alone, passing through that experience alone,
and perhaps being alone on the other side.
All of these are real.
These are real fears.
And if we get honest, many of us, most of us, all of us, carry these around to some degree or another in our souls.
But, friends, there is hope to these issues.
There is an answer.
And it will come into focus this morning as we look at this beautiful text from John chapter 11.
And so we begin at verse 1.
A man named Lazarus was sick.
He lived in Bethany with his sisters, Mary and Martha.
This is the Mary who poured the expensive perfume on the Lord's feet
and wiped them with her hair.
Her brother Lazarus was sick.
So the two sisters sent a message to Jesus telling him,
Lord, the one that you love is very sick.
But when Jesus heard about it, he said,
Lazarus' sickness will not end in death.
No, it is for the glory of God.
I, the Son of God, will receive glory from this.
Although Jesus loved Mary and Martha and Lazarus,
he stayed where he was for the next two days
and did not go to them.
Finally, after two days, he said to his disciples,
let's go to Judea again.
But his disciples objected.
Teacher, they said, only a few days ago,
the Jewish leaders in Judea were trying to kill you.
Are you going to go there again?
Jesus replied, there are 12 hours of daylight every day.
As long as it is light, people can walk safely.
They can see because they have the light of this world.
Only at night is there danger of stumbling because there is no light.
And then he said, our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep, but now I will go and wake him up.
The disciples said, Lord, if he's sleeping, that means he's going to get better.
They thought Jesus meant Lazarus was having a good night's rest.
But Jesus meant that Lazarus had died.
And then he told them plainly, Lazarus is dead.
And for your sake, I'm glad I wasn't there.
Because this will give you the opportunity to believe in me.
Come, let's go see him.
Now Thomas, nicknamed the twin, said to his fellow disciples,
yes, let's go too and die with Jesus.
When Jesus arrived at Bethany, he was told that Lazarus had already been in his grave
for four days.
Bethany was only a few miles down the road
from Jerusalem, and many of the people
had come to pay their respects and console
Martha and Mary on their loss.
When Martha got word
that Jesus was coming, she went to meet
him, but Mary stayed at home.
Martha said to Jesus,
Lord, if you had been here,
my brother would not have died.
But even now, I know
that God will give you whatever you ask.
Jesus told her, your brother
will rise again.
Yes, Martha said, when everyone else rises on resurrection day.
And Jesus told her, I am the resurrection and the life.
Those who believe in me, even though they die like everyone else, will live again.
They are given eternal life for believing in me and will never perish.
Do you believe this, Martha?
Yes, Lord, she told him.
I've always believed you are the Messiah, the Son of God, the one who has come into the world from God.
Then she left him and returned to Mary.
She called Mary aside from the mourners and told her,
the teacher is here and he wants to see you.
So Mary immediately went to him.
Now Jesus had stayed outside the village at the place where
Martha met him.
When the people who were at the house trying to console Mary saw
her leave so hastily, they assumed she was going to
Lazarus' grave to weep.
So they followed her there.
When Mary arrived and saw Jesus, she fell down at his feet
and said, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died.
When Jesus saw her weeping and saw the other people wailing with her,
he was moved with indignation and was deeply troubled.
Where have you put him, he asked them. And they told him, Lord,
come and see. And Jesus wept. The people who were standing
nearby said how much he loved him.
But some said this man healed a blind man. Why couldn't he keep Lazarus
from dying. And again, Jesus was troubled deeply. Then they came to the grave. It was a cave with a
stone rolled across the entrance. Roll the stone aside, Jesus told them. But Martha, dead man's
sister, said, Lord, by now the smell will be terrible because he's been dead for four days.
And Jesus responded, didn't I tell you that you will see God's glory if you believe?
so they rolled the stone aside
and Jesus looked up to heaven and said
Father, thank you for hearing me
you always hear me
but I said it out loud
for the sake of all these people standing here
so that they will believe in me
and Jesus shouted
Lazarus, come out
and Lazarus came out
bound in grave clothes
his face wrapped in a head cloth
Jesus told him, unwrap him
and let him go
Well, many of the people who were there with Mary believed in Jesus,
and when they saw this happen,
but some went to the Pharisees and told them what Jesus had done.
And the leading priests and the Pharisees called the high council together
to discuss the situation.
What are we going to do?
They asked each other.
This man certainly performs many miraculous signs.
If we leave him alone, the whole nation will follow him,
and then the Roman army will come and destroy both our temple and our nation.
And one of them, Caiaphas, the high priest this year said, how can you be so stupid?
Why should the whole nation be destroyed?
Let this one man die for the people.
This prophecy that Jesus should die for the entire nation came from Caiaphas in his position
as high priest.
He didn't think of it himself.
He was inspired to say it.
It was a prediction that Jesus' death would not be for Israel only, but for the gathering
together of all the children of God scattered around the world.
And so from that time on, Jewish leaders began to plot
Jesus' death. And as a result, Jesus stopped his public ministry among the
people and left Jerusalem. He went to a place near the wilderness
to the village of Ephraim and stayed there with his disciples.
This narrative describes the
climactic event in the ministry of Jesus.
This is the most dramatic, the most provocative miracle in the gospel at all.
And it's life-changing for so many people here.
For Lazarus, life-changing.
For Mary, Martha, and even the extended family for Jesus.
All these people, for Jesus' death, we're all going to get life.
That's what the religious leaders began to pull out of this event.
Friends, there's so much in this text.
Let's unpack it for a few moments.
The story begins with these three characters, Mary, Martha, and Lazarus,
brothers and sisters to whom Jesus felt very close.
Perhaps Mary, Martha, and Lazarus were almost like extended family to Jesus.
Either way, Jesus cares for them so deeply.
We heard about Lazarus' condition.
He responds in a similar way to the blind man we saw last week,
that God is going to be glorified in this event coming up.
But what's interesting is Jesus does not go immediately.
In fact, he waits two days.
Jesus operates on his own time.
There's a lesson for us.
God operates on his own time.
We may want things to happen in our time.
God operates on his time.
Finally, two days later, they head for Judea.
And that must have been frightening to the disciples
because there had been plots to kill Jesus.
People had talked of killing Jesus, trying to arrest him, trying to stone him.
So when Thomas speaks, well, let's go die with Jesus,
he's got a good picture of what's happening there.
And finally they head to Bethany.
Now Lazarus has been dead for four days.
What's so important about four days?
It's actually very significant, four days.
The author points that out.
It was believed at the time that the soul of a dead person
remained in the vicinity of the body for three days,
hoping to reenter it.
But once decomposition begins to set in,
the soul was thought to have finally departed.
What's happening here is it is very clear that he is dead.
The soul is not trying to bring him alive again.
Decomposition has begun.
He is dead.
There is no resuscitation going on here.
There is no faint heartbeat that we can't pick up.
this man is dead.
Martha meets with Jesus
and she knows that Jesus
could have prevented her brother's death.
Jesus says that Lazarus
will rise again. She agrees.
Yes.
She'd been taught that.
She'd been taught at the end time that the Jews would be
raised up at the end. But Jesus goes
much further. He goes right to
the punchline. You don't have to
wait for the end.
I am right now.
resurrection and life.
The one who believes in me
even though he or she dies
will live.
And everyone who lives believing in me
does not ultimately die at all.
Do you believe this?
What a claim.
What a claim.
To consider yourself the resurrection
and the life.
That is the most bold, audacious statement
I have heard.
Jesus is claiming to be in charge of everything.
Life and death
and everything in between, that's a bold statement.
Let's go back in history a few years.
A fighter named Cassius Clay, Muhammad Ali,
claimed that he was the best boxer
to ever step on the planet.
And then he set out and defeated
this gentleman, Sonny Liston.
And after he took him down, in an interview later,
he said this deeply philosophical truth.
He said, it ain't bragging if you got the goods.
Jesus said, I'm the resurrection and the life.
That's not bragging if you got the goods.
Jesus has the goods.
That's the most outrageous claim to be the resurrection and the life unless he has the goods.
And what happens next?
He has the goods.
They took him to the tomb.
Jesus speaks a prayer to the Father.
They all can hear.
And then in front of the supporters, the detractors, and all the curiosity seekers, they saw what's not supposed to happen.
Truly, a dead man walked out of a tomb.
Can't be.
Can't be.
You could just see them rubbing their eyes.
This cannot be.
But a dead man came up from the grave.
Friends, that is power.
And you can just see Lazarus standing there like a mummy, wrapped from head to toe.
The most spectacular miracle of Jesus' ministry.
Unwrap him, Jesus says, and let him go.
Now in the context of Jewish laws that regarded dead bodies as unclean,
you can just imagine the questions.
Do we touch him?
Do we go near him?
And it's not written, but I surmise there was a further conversation that only the minimal words that we see.
I can even imagine Jesus approaching Lazarus and embracing him.
And you can imagine the Jewish leaders just about passing out.
This cannot be.
You don't touch untouchables like that.
Jesus would embrace him.
What would you have said if you stood there?
Would you believe it?
Would you believe it?
What do you say about Jesus today?
Do you believe it?
Do you believe it?
The raising of Lazarus is the sign that Jesus is the one who gives life.
But some didn't believe.
Sadly, some still said, we're not going to believe.
Even with the mummy standing with the head graves and the clothes wrapped around him,
they still wouldn't believe it.
And they went off and they plotted against him.
Do you believe it?
And friends, it's more than just a doctrine.
It's more than just believing in Jesus that he can do things like that.
It's about knowing this Jesus who saves us.
It's not a doctrine.
It's a relationship with the man who did this.
To face death with confidence, friends, we have to know Jesus, not just know about Jesus.
This is not about a textbook discussion.
This is engaging in a relationship with the risen Lord who is alive today
and can be in relationship with you each and every moment of every day.
Do you believe it?
And if you know Jesus, then there's no need to fear death.
There's no need to fear death.
Followers of Jesus have no need to fear death because Jesus is the Lord over death.
He conquered death in his own resurrection,
and he displays that kind of power publicly in the raising of Lazarus.
We have no need to fear death.
couple that with Paul's discussion about our bodies
we have real hope to look forward to notice this verse
from 2nd Corinthians chapter 5
Paul writes for we know that when this earthly tent
we live in is taken down when we die
and leave these bodies we will have a home
in heaven an eternal body made for us by
God himself and not by human hands
we grow weary in our present bodies
and we long for the day
when we will put on our heavenly bodies
like new clothing
for we will not be spirits without bodies
but we will put on new heavenly bodies.
Our dying bodies make us groan and sigh
but it's not that we want to die
and we have no bodies at all.
We want to slip into our new bodies
so that these dying bodies
will be swallowed up by everlasting life.
God himself has prepared us for this
and as a guarantee, he has given us his Holy Spirit.
Remember that list we gave of the reasons to fear death?
The potential of pain.
There is obviously always the potential for pain,
but what helps me recognize and deal with that fact
is that Jesus endured the most excruciating pain on the cross
and realized that pain is only temporary,
if there's pain at all.
That fear of saying goodbye to loved ones.
Friends, as Christians, once we die,
we will be at home with the Lord, says the Scriptures,
and then we're going to be resurrected on the last day.
We will be with all of those who follow Jesus Christ.
You will see your loved ones who are in Christ again.
You will not be separated from them.
The apprehension of the unknown was a fear.
Jesus brought a man back from the grave.
Jesus himself later went to the other side of the grave
and came back.
And while on the cross,
Jesus even said to the thief
hanging beside him,
he said that you would be in paradise
this very day with me.
We can know what happens after death.
We have nothing to fear
from the fear of being alone.
The fear of being alone
is a real fear from our perspective
that when you understand
that you're going to be with Jesus,
he will be there
on the other side of the grave.
You will be with those
who are in Christ.
You will not be alone.
Jesus conquers these fears that we carry around.
Amen to that.
Christians, we have hope.
And of all the philosophies in the world, none answers the issue of death like Jesus Christ.
Nothing explains it like this.
Nothing deals with it like this.
Because no other philosophers have died and come back and raised others and promised that we'll be raised as well.
Number two, and finally, knowing Jesus, there's Christ's power in your life today.
Jesus does not say that he can provide resurrection and life.
He says he is resurrection and life.
Resurrection and life are aspects of what it means to live in intimate communion with Jesus.
If Jesus is life, then those who believe in him will enjoy the confidence
that we can have power over death as we know Jesus.
And friends, you can have that kind of life now.
there's real power available
in the experience
of Jesus Christ
the power of God in our lives today
is the same as the power
that raised Jesus from the dead
and Lazarus as well
and that the same power we have access to today
is the same power that enables us
to live for eternity
there's power in knowing Jesus
there's power for
living a life of purpose
in knowing Jesus
the resurrection, and the life.
There is power for living a life
free of addictions of this earth.
In knowing Jesus personally,
there's power for living a life
free of fear.
There's power for living a life of peace
in the midst of chaos.
We don't know what's going to happen
in our world from moment to moment.
But Christians, we have hope
in the midst of chaos
because of the power of Jesus Christ
in our lives.
Let's never forget
we have hope in the midst of chaos
and there's power for living
a life of surrender to Jesus
for his love for us
is unquenchable
I just want to celebrate the end
of this message with this wonderful challenge
and incredible verse
from Romans chapter 8
remember this church
Paul writes can anything ever
separate us from Christ's love
does it mean he no longer loves
us if we have trouble
or calamity, or are persecuted, or are hungry, or cold, or in dark, or danger, or threatened with
death. Even the scriptures say, for your sake we are killed every day. We're being slaughtered like
sheep. No, despite all these things, overwhelming victory is ours through Christ who loved us.
And I'm convinced, he writes, that nothing can ever separate us from his love. Death can't. Life can't.
The angels can't, and the demons can't.
Our fears for today, our worries about tomorrow,
and even the powers of hell cannot keep God's love away.
Whether we're high above the sky or in the deepest ocean,
nothing in all creation will ever be able to separate us
from the love of God that is revealed in Christ Jesus, our Lord.
Church, let that one just percolate down into your soul.
nothing can separate you
from the love of God
and if you are in Jesus
the fear of death, the sting of death
nothing can separate you
from the love of God
you have hope church
we have hope because Jesus loves you
he's got a hope for you
and no matter what this world brings
whatever our lives bring there is hope
for the end
and for life eternal
and that power begins now
and nothing can separate you from his love
don't ever forget that no matter what you face nothing can separate you from his love let us
pray oh lord we thank you that you give us hope in the midst of so much chaos that you give us
power in the midst of such weakness thank you that jesus is the resurrection and the life
that we can have that now and forever.
And I pray that these realities
that we have examined in your word and shared
would not just be doctrines cold on the page,
but live realities in our hearts.
And may that hope spill over out of us
and bless others who need to hear that hope,
to experience that hope.
May we be the ambassadors of the hope
that we have in Jesus Christ.
And Lord, now as we come and gather around your table,
may you lift our heads
and may we celebrate the hope that we have
because of what Jesus did for us.
And we thank you and we praise you in Jesus' name.
Amen.
