All that had been going on, I just, Robin and I had had it with information and terror and blood and just date night. We needed to get out.
We take a Friday night anyway, but it was very important that we make sure we got out this Friday night and we had dinner just downtown here and just enjoyed each other.
And we knew that there was a Christian concert taking place here at our church.
and we dared to venture feeling rather old at our ripe old age of late 30s
and we walked into our own sanctuary over here
and it took me back a long time.
And here was a band that had been brought in from southern Indiana called The Elms
and I was skeptical.
I thought, okay, it's going to be a punk rock show
and I'm not going to understand anything
and it's just going to be way outside of my boundaries.
Come to find out, it was a real blessing.
We were blessed that night by this band,
these young guys from southern Indiana.
The connection is Robbins, my wife's sister,
is married to a gentleman whose brother,
did you catch that?
Okay.
Robbins' sister's husband's brother
is the premier Christian rock promoter in Orange County.
We have, according to Tim Tabor,
the best concert venue anywhere in Orange County.
Praise the Lord.
So we have these bands being brought in.
All we do is flip on the lights and say, have a great time, and we show up and get blessed,
and they do everything, and we get exposure.
There were over 100 kids from all over Orange County, even out to San Bernardino, coming
and just having a worship, jumping around in Jesus kind of experience.
And as I stood in the back, feeling old, you understand, but I remembered myself at 14,
at 18, at 22, 24, going to shows like that
and having the Lord minister to me through those events
and how those were part of my journey
in staying close to Jesus through my teens and early 20s.
And I was so proud of us to have a place
where that kind of event could take place
with an excellence and a quality that I never got to experience.
And I was proud to share that.
And they said, hey, you've got the best venue around.
We're coming back.
We're going to sling through a whole bunch of shows here.
And there will be kids coming from all over the place.
I just want to share that, that in the midst of tough times,
there's good things happening in ministry.
And then after that whole thing was over, Saturday morning,
we turned that place into a basketball venue all over again.
That's what that was designed for, multiple use.
And all these families hearing about Jesus Saturday morning with basketball.
It was just a wonderful weekend.
So amidst our challenges, God is still on the throne.
God is still doing ministry.
God is still bringing people to himself.
And we're going to stay faithful in the midst of all that's happening.
Well, with that, I encourage you to journey with me a little bit.
Imagine, if you will, an early morning as the sun is beginning to brighten the sky.
A man moves silently through a vineyard.
He's got work to do.
And as he does it with determination and precision, he pauses to sharpen a pruning knife.
He gets the blade very, very crisp and ready to go.
Because he knows that he will be most effective when his knife is very sharp.
And he works with skill, reaching here and then there and slashing a loose branch from the vine.
occasionally even slicing into a whole bunch of grapes
and letting them fall to the ground.
And when he's finished with that vine,
he moves on, leaving a stump where a branch had been
with the sap kind of oozing in the early glistening sunlight.
The vine dresser moves from vine to vine.
That's the imagery.
That's the kind of mental picture
that Jesus is using in his last discourse
and challenge to his disciples.
Jesus is giving his disciples his final thoughts,
giving them his final marching orders.
And as Eric pointed out last week,
the mission is to be continued.
And here's how they are to do it.
From John chapter 15,
Jesus says,
I am the true vine,
and my Father is the gardener.
He cuts off every branch that doesn't produce fruit
and he prunes the branches that do bear fruit so that even more fruit will be produced.
You have already been pruned for greater fruitfulness by the message I have given you.
Remain in me and I will remain in you.
For a branch cannot produce fruit if it is severed from the vine
and you cannot be fruitful apart from me.
Yes, I am the vine, you are the branches.
Those who remain in me and I in them will produce much fruit.
For apart from me you can do nothing.
Anyone who parts from me is thrown away like a useless branch and withers.
Such branches are gathered into a pile to be burned.
But if you stay joined to me and my words remain in you,
you may ask any request you like and it will be granted.
My true disciples produce much fruit, and this brings great glory to my Father.
I have loved you even as the Father has loved me.
Remain in my love.
When you obey me, you remain in my love, just as I obey my Father and remain in his love.
I have told you this so that you will be filled with my joy.
Yes, your joy will overflow.
Lo, I command you to love each other in the same way that I love you.
And here is how to measure it.
The greatest love is shown when people lay their lives down for their friends.
You are my friends if you obey me.
I no longer call you servants, but a master doesn't confide in his servants.
Now you are my friends.
Since I have told you everything the Father has told me, you didn't choose me, I chose you.
I appointed you to go and produce fruit that will last.
So the Father will give you whatever you ask for using my name.
I command you to love each other.
Friends, in times such as these, with the events of the world weighing heavily upon our hearts,
upon our heads the church must the church must rise up and carry on its mission without fear
and with single-minded focus people need the lord people need the lord we are christ's ambassadors
we are the representatives of jesus christ on earth to spread this message to bring hope
especially in the midst of the challenges that face our world.
Jesus uses this image of a vine and branches to speak to the disciples.
Jesus wants the disciples to branch out, to branch out.
He wants the mission fulfilled in the world.
And so he gives four secrets to the disciples for how we are to bring about this mission,
how we are to branch out.
And the first one is this, the pruning by the Father.
Pruning by the Father.
As I've shared before, I don't have much experience with horticulture.
I don't know much about how to trim or prune or nurture a plant.
I'm kind of a throw some weed and feed on the lawn and watered a lot kind of gardener.
You know what I'm talking about?
Just spread it around and pray to God it lives.
That's my approach.
But my wife, bless her heart, she has good skills for plant care.
She has an eye.
She has the skill to take care of the plants, so I trust her.
Some of you think I'm just bowing out because I don't want to be responsible.
The fact is, I just kill plants.
This is a stewardship issue in our home.
She doesn't want me touching the plants.
So Robin, with her clippers and other accoutrements, gets out there
and does violence to the plants.
In my eye, bam, bam, bam, snip, snip, pieces are flying everywhere.
Death and destruction follows her pruning shears,
and I get to sweep it up.
That's how that works.
But you know what's amazing is she knows what she's doing,
and after all this seeming violence to the plants,
a few weeks later, there's new buds, there's new life,
and there's new fullness coming in those plants.
It's an amazing science.
I don't know how it works, but I know that even when you clip it back and the sap is oozing
and it looks like the plant is crying in pain, it's good for it.
And it grows healthier and fuller and bigger.
And so Jesus uses that image of the vine dresser.
And Jesus is saying, he is the true vine.
It's no longer Israel.
Jesus is the true vine.
Jesus is God's planting.
And in that vineyard, there's pruning.
There's pruning.
Because the Father wants us to produce fruit.
What kind of fruit are we to produce?
What's the mission?
As Jesus is talking to the disciples, he's saying that he's going to leave them soon,
that the Holy Spirit is coming to empower them, and the mission is to carry on.
And the fruit that the disciples are to produce are things like worship,
and ministry, community, forming their spirits to be like Jesus, to outreach.
Jesus wants his followers to be the kind of people who love God and worship freely,
who love others in practical ways,
who experience real authentic community within the church,
who discipline their minds and their actions to conform to Jesus
and who share with others the hope that is found in Christ.
That's what he wants.
He wants the fruit of the Spirit in our lives,
love and joy and peace and patience
and kindness and goodness
and faithfulness and gentleness
and self-control.
That's what a Christian is to look like.
And if we're going to be on Christ's mission in the world,
we have to be authentic, fruit-bearing disciples of Jesus Christ.
And for a vine to put out grapes,
There has to be that tending by that gardener, that slashing sometimes, that cutting, that pruning.
Friends, God does prune the branches sometimes.
If we're the branches, if we are the branches, then God prunes the branches,
and that means He prunes us sometimes.
We all have various struggles in our lives, things that God needs to cut and to prune away.
Some of us struggle with our thoughts.
some with our attitudes, some with relationships,
some with various behaviors that don't honor God,
that have to be clipped and trimmed,
some with passion, some with service,
some with motives.
Our motives can get twisted, and it's time sometimes for the Lord
to come in and speak to us about our motives,
some with willingness.
God prunes the branches.
How does He do that?
How does He prune us?
In verse 3 in that passage, it says that God prunes by Jesus' message.
And since Jesus' message is now embedded in the Scriptures,
as we study and apply God's Word, allow it to course through our veins,
the Scriptures, as they speak to us, will prune us and challenge us.
God can prune through just the reading and the studying and the meditation and the application of His Word.
The Bible also says in Hebrews chapter 12,
God's discipline is always right and good for us
because it means we will share in his holiness.
But no discipline is enjoyable while it's happening.
It's painful.
But afterward, there will be a quiet harvest of right living
for those who are trained in this way.
Friends, God may prune us.
He may move us.
He may have us change jobs.
he may change our neighbors he may remove some old friends he may remove some old habits
he may remove our jobs our income whatever it is that distracts us from himself he might move us
out of our comfort zones he might even humble us like he did jonah bring us to somebody else i
don't know how he's going to do it but god at times can discipline his children as an act of
pruning. Why? That we might produce more fruit, to be fuller. It doesn't feel good. It can be painful.
When a branch gets pruned, the sap oozes. It can sometimes feel like that when God disciplines us.
We're raw. We're irritated. We're kind of oozing. Ow, Lord. But the gift of pain can make us grow.
The gift of pain makes us grow.
Pain motivates.
Pain can push us.
Pain is often a pathway to growth.
And God wants us to be fruitful disciples.
Sometimes he cuts back out of our lives the thing that holds us back from being fruitful.
So friends, if we're going to be effective in the mission,
sometimes we have to allow God to step into our lives and prune us back a bit
and shape some things in our lives that we might actually be fruitful for his kingdom.
And I don't know what that looks like in individual lives in this room.
I'm just asking you to be open that when God moves, and sometimes it hurts,
to say, Father, I want to be fruitful.
Have your way.
And don't try and resist His loving discipline.
For if the grapes were to move out of the way,
if the vine could wiggle out from under the movement of the vine dresser,
it would not ultimately be a healthy vine.
Number two, the second secret for effective mission that Jesus is challenging us in this day is to remain in the sun.
Jesus said, I am the vine, you are the branches.
Those who remain in me and I in them will produce much fruit.
For apart from me you can do nothing.
Thinking about vines and branches this week,
I discovered, some of you may have been to this place,
that there is a vine, the oldest living vine, they think, in London,
in a place called Hampton Court.
Anybody been there?
A few, okay.
The Internet showed me pictures of this vine.
Apparently it was planted over 200 years ago,
and it's still producing fruit today.
There's one root that's at least two feet thick,
and there's one branch that's at least 120 feet long.
That's like out the back of the sanctuary.
Can you imagine a vine like that?
And every year it puts out over 700 pounds of grapes.
And they still make jelly from this 200-plus-year-old vine.
And life flows from that large root all the way out to the very edges of that vine.
over 120 feet away, there's still something good produced at the end of that vine.
But friends, that vine has been pruned and trimmed and lovingly cared for
and disciplined and shaped for over 200 years.
And it still puts out great fruit.
But you know what?
If those little buds on the end of that vine don't stay connected to that vine,
there will be no fruit.
A branch must stay connected to the vine.
If it disconnects, it dies.
The analogy that Jesus is making is that for us to produce that kind of kingdom fruit,
fruit in the kingdom of God, we've got to stay connected to the true vine,
which is Jesus the Christ.
We must remain, says the Scriptures, in Him.
We must have our lives deeply grafted into Jesus.
we've got to stay intimately connected attached grafted whatever word i can find to help us to
stay that we are remaining in jesus some translations say abide in christ how do we
remain how do we abide in christ jesus once again links abiding and remaining in him
as having His Word, says the Scripture, flowing through us.
It's about having the Word of God coursing again through our veins.
That's how you abide in Christ.
I've been trying an experiment for the past few weeks,
a different way to do discipleship,
a new way of trying to meet in small groups
and see if this thing can replicate
so that many people can get this kind of intimate connection
with somebody else and with the Word of God.
It's called a Life Transformation Group, or we call it an LTG.
I read about this recently, and I've tried one, and Matt and Cameron are actually with
me in this right now.
And if this goes well, it's going to replicate and produce a lot of fruit in the congregation.
And what we're doing simply is meeting, and we have to read 30 chapters of Scripture a
week, about five or six chapters at a time, six times a week.
every day we're reading about five to six chapters of scripture just letting it flow through us and
with all of my studies and all of my preparation it's easy for me to barrel down onto one text and
the one that i'm going to explain on sunday it's been good for my soul to just read volumes of
scripture great themes as it begins to course through my soul i've been blessed by the process
And as we gather in this one-hour meeting, we share what Scriptures we've been impressed by,
what God's doing, and then we have ten very intimate character questions.
We challenge each other, and we're growing.
And I really believe in that process.
We're really a formal way of abiding in Christ.
It's been so good for me.
And I hope as it replicates, it'll be good for you.
But to have God's Word, just let it wash over us over and over.
That's partly how we abide in Christ.
We remain in Christ and are abiding in Christ by intimate prayer with Jesus.
We have Scripture coursing through our souls,
and then we come to Jesus in intimate prayer and talk with Him in real time right now.
We abide in Christ as we live our lives as Jesus would live our lives
in Fullerton, in Anaheim, in Placentia, in North Orange County.
if He were alive in your skin today.
That's how we abide in Christ.
We abide in Christ by enjoying
supernatural experience of love and peace
that comes from the power of the Holy Spirit.
That's how we abide in Christ.
The question then for all of us is this.
Are you abiding in the vine?
Are you deeply connected to Jesus,
the tap root?
That's where your nourishment spiritually comes from.
Or are you disconnected and you're separate and you're drifting?
Friends, when you're deeply abiding in Jesus,
fruitfulness is a natural part of abiding in the vine.
And if we're going to be fruitful in these days of great challenge in our world,
in a world that doesn't believe in absolute truth,
in a world that is struggling to find its way,
in a world that rejects the gospel of Jesus Christ,
yet it needs it with every foundation and fiber of its being,
if we're going to be effective in this kind of world,
we're going to have to be abiding deeply in Jesus the vine.
A few weeks ago, I spent time with a good friend of Mario's,
a trainer in the karate arts,
was here, one of the best in the world, a tactician,
spending time with him.
And I got a real taste, friends, of how the world thinks today.
Brilliant man, lost.
New age thought coming out of his mouth.
The Bible is good for 2,000 years ago, but the new evolution of spirituality, we're on to new things.
Boy, that will rattle your cage.
How do you share Christ with somebody who thinks that your Jesus is a lower evolution in spirituality?
This is the world that we live in.
And we've got to wake up, church, and abide in Christ and get out there with the Spirit of Christ flowing through us.
Our arguments are not going to do it.
Our logical way of trying to logic them into Jesus is not going to work today.
It's going to be about Jesus abiding in us and they seeing spirituality exude from us.
And they say, I want that.
Because my Ouija boards are not doing it.
Because my seances are not working.
Because talking to the dead is not working.
There's something in you.
That's what our world and our mission is like today.
And I don't like it personally.
I liked it when it was simpler.
I liked it when pretty much everybody assumed this was true
and we could just sort of play verse hopping
and we could get people to say, oh, I get it.
Okay, I'll come to Jesus, great.
We're in a different universe today.
And friends, the spiritual battle,
the only way we're gonna be effective today
is be abiding in the vine, connected to Jesus
and letting his life pour through us
in real, everyday, practical ways.
We're in a battle for people's souls.
I've come to see that more and more.
I'm taught that, I believe that,
but as I get out here in the trenches
and do real ministry with real people,
I am really seeing it is a spiritual deal out there.
And the only way to win this one is to pray and let God begin to soften up people's hearts.
And I've been praying for people's eyes to be removed from the blinders
and for their eyes to be opened.
That's a spiritual thing.
We've got to pray for God's Spirit to open eyes,
for the half-truths and lies to be purged away,
for people to be convicted of their sin and on and on and on.
That comes as we're intimately connected with Jesus.
And asking on behalf of those that we love, that He would mercy them.
When you pray those kind of prayers, you begin praying Scripture.
You begin to pray God's heart.
When you pray God's heart and you pray God's Scriptures,
you're praying in Jesus' name because you're praying along with the will of Jesus Himself.
The Bible says He'll answer those kinds of prayers.
So friends, we've got to live in harmony with Jesus and have Him so filling our lives
that our prayers are His prayers
and then watch God answer them.
That's the third secret for effective mission.
And finally, it's about loving your fellow disciples.
John 5 says,
I command you to love each other
in the same way that I love you.
And here is how to measure it.
The greatest love is shown
when people lay down their lives for their friends.
That's actually John 15, I'm sorry.
John 15, just from our verse.
Jesus is telling us finally
that effective mission happens
when Christians really love each other.
Our message of Jesus is authenticated
when we love each other.
Thinking back to my friend who flew across the pond
to be with us, he's drawn to us.
He's drawn to this church and doesn't know why.
He's drawn to Mario, he's drawn to me,
he's drawn to Betty, he's drawn to the members
of our karate team, he doesn't know why.
But he's drawn to us because of Jesus.
That's why.
and it's because we love each other because he sees authentic community unlike anywhere else
he travels he's drawn to us we've got to love each other when we do that that spreads
and people know that we're for real and that jesus is for real staying in the vine is a good
thing friends i want to say obedience to jesus is not a chore sometimes it's easy to hear all
of this submit to Jesus and do His will, and it seems like we're subsuming our will to His. That's
right, we are, but you know what? It's not a chore. It's very liberating because the kind of life that
we were created to live is in connection with the God who created us. It's a life filled with purpose
and meaning and direction. It's a life filled with power and forgiveness and cleansing and hope and
healing. It's a great, wonderful life. It can clash with the world sometimes, and that makes it really
hard. And sometimes when the Father prunes us, it can be hard. But friends, I wouldn't choose any
other pathway than to have my past forgiven, my future secure, and my present freed to love the
Lord. The Bible says we live that kind of life that Jesus calls us friend. Do you know how radical
that is? There were only a few times in the Old Testament where people were actually titled
Friends of God, Abraham and Moses, and now through Jesus, we're called friends.
That's good stuff.
That's the highest kind of relationship you can have with God is that he calls you friend.
And I cherish it so much.
So in conclusion, friends, my question is this.
Are you connected to the vine?
Are you connected to the vine?
Are you connected to Jesus?
Are you experiencing the kinds of things I've been talking about
because you're connected to the vine or are you disconnected and floating in life what's the
quality of the spiritual fruit in your life is it healthy big grapes so to speak big bushels
or are your grapes kind of shrivelly is there something blocking the sap from getting out to
your branch that you're not producing good fruit what is it will you allow the lord to begin to
prune it and shape it and tear it away that you might be full.
I love plumerias, those beautiful Hawaiian flowers with the fragrance that I believe
will be the fragrance of heaven.
Just a thought.
Those are the most beautiful little flowers.
And every year we go to the fair and we try to buy one of those little stalks of plumerias
and they say if you do thus and such, it's going to grow.
And I stick it in the ground.
I water.
I remember me, Mr. Horticulture, and I kill it every year.
And there was a time recently my beautiful plumeria was just a stem in the ground.
And I went out there.
Honey, is it alive?
It might be green on the tip.
What do you think?
You only know if there's fruit, if it's alive, if it's producing flowers and fruit.
My little stalk hasn't put out anything in a year.
It's probably dead.
The fair comes around in July.
Try again.
Because I want plumerias in my yard.
And if anybody's got a tip, tell me.
If you've got a sapling, cut it for me.
Help me, please.
I want that fragrance in my yard.
But the real point of this is this.
How do you know it's alive if it produces fruit?
How do you know it's healthy if the fruit is healthy?
How is your spiritual life?
Is it producing good fruit, or are your grapes and flowers withered?
Or maybe you're not attached to the vine at all.
And I would say this morning, friend, you can get grafted in, tied in,
where the roots grow right into your roots, and you have a deep connection with Jesus.
You can have that today.
You can also leave this place today a withered fruit.
you can leave with the arteries of your vine
opened. We can do angioplasty on
your branch if you let the Spirit of God
stick the balloon and open it up. You know what I'm talking about?
Is there something holding you back this morning
from having really good fruit in Jesus? Is there a behavior, an
attitude, an action, something that's causing your branch
to wither a little bit it's not healthy out there how are you doing how's the pruning are you letting
god prune are you abiding in christ are you praying in jesus name are you loving other disciples
these are questions for all of us to answer including me and they're hard ones this
horticulture stuff is hard it requires work sometimes it can be a little painful but the
Fruit is good, and it's worth being fruitful disciples.
And so, friends, with all that's happening in our world,
we must come and trust Jesus.
We must graft into the vine.
It's the only place where real hope will be.
And we need to be people of hope, sharing that hope in a world that is frantic
for some kind of rooting, for some kind of vine to be attached to.
And I want them to see it in the people of Fullerton first.
I mean, I want all the church in America, but I can't speak to all that.
All I know is we got us right here.
And can we encourage each other?
Can I encourage you and can you encourage me to be the most fruitful kind of disciples that we can be?
To use our spiritual gifts to the fullest, to prune away the leaves and the brush that holds us back
from having beautiful, luscious fruit that makes the Father proud and glorifies Him.
I'm going to pray.
I'm going to pray that God's Spirit is going to move in this place.
I'm going to invite you up to prayer if you'd like to come.
I'm going to invite you to get things right with God.
I'm going to invite you to have an encounter with Jesus for the first time if you've never done that.
Because I want you to be fruitful, beautiful, luscious, fruitful disciples.
And so with that, let's pray.
Lord God, thank you for Jesus' strong words as he shares with his intimate disciples.
and that's us carrying on the mission 2,000 years later.
I pray we'd be faithful in that.
I pray that we would be fruitful as you called us to be fruitful.
And Lord, if there's some of us here that just are struggling
with the flow of your life into their lives,
there's things that block the flow, I pray.
Your spirit would now begin to prune and clip and part the brush.
And may the flow grow.
and may the blossoms begin to open.
Father, we want to be people that are fruitful.
Help us to allow you to do your work
and not resist it.
Help us to be a loving community
that encourages each other towards
faithfulness and fruitfulness.
So Lord, may it be so.
And this morning I want to speak for a moment
while our heads are bowed to anyone here
that has not yet decided to lay aside the old life
and to come and to have Jesus grab you onto his vine
and pour his life into yours and make it wonderful.
If you're in that place and you're feeling the Holy Spirit's touch in your life right now,
you might pray just like this.
Dear God, I know that you're there.
And I know that you see my life and where I've been.
And I'm sorry for where I've been, the things I've done
that go against the kind of life you would have for me.
but I thank you that you forgive me
that you clear that all
away, that you prune
all those dead
and dying branches away
that you produce new life
thank you that
I'm forgiven
that I now have you in me
and I want to follow you all the days of my
life and as the Bible says
I want to dwell in
your house forever
Lord may you do that work now
and bring that kind of assurance now
in the lives of those who are giving their lives to you.
Father, I pray that in these days of uncertainty,
in these days of challenge around our globe,
I pray that you would unite the church,
that the church would be a beacon of hope,
and that though our emotions may jitter
and our stomachs may rumble and we may be insecure,
Lord, may we be secure in you,
the architect of the ages,
the God of all mercy,
the one who's sovereign over everything.
May we trust in you.
And may that be our comfort.
And may the hugs and the handshakes of the disciples
as we in Christ gather together,
may that be our comfort, our refuge,
our place of encouragement.
Lord God, accomplish your purposes.
And I pray you continue to raise up Fullerton First
for the great fruit you want to produce.
On this street corner, in this community, in North Orange County, at this time in the history of the world.
We want to be all about what you want us to be about.
So help us to see where you're taking us.
And may we follow.
And may we be fruitful along the way.
In Jesus' name, amen.
