The Lord is really good, isn't he? Amen. He was really good to us last Monday. God has given me a passion for a game without the ability to play it.
I've become a real lover of this silly game of golf, but I can't play it. But I can appreciate those who can.
And the Lord was good and gave us a ringer on the Fullerton First Baptist team
in the Emery Campbell Golf Tournament.
And it's been a personal mission of mine to eventually get up there and place in that tournament
because this was Emery's church.
And it seemed disgraceful that Fullerton would not someday rise to the occasion
and lead and win.
And last Monday, we did. Praise the Lord.
We were on a mission, Michael Dismuke and Ed Mueller, Jeff Templeton and myself bringing up the rear.
We actually all had to contribute something, so it was legitimate.
We were actually a team, but let's be honest, our professional Jeff Templeton carried the day,
and it was poetic to watch him play, and it was really fun.
I want to thank Merle Dean for putting together two teams to make the bid for the summit, if you will, and one of them made it.
So, praise the Lord, we are now on the plaque forever as the winners in the Emery Campbell Golf Tournament.
So, congratulate those players. We're happy to share that good news.
Well, you may have heard the story about the little boy with two quarters that is walking near the storm drain.
and inadvertently, one of the coins made it into the grate
and through and splashed at the bottom of the storm sewer.
And as he was taking those coins to church,
he said, well, Lord, there went your coin
because he'd rather buy ice cream with the other.
And obviously, the Lord's coin went to the bottom.
Friends, sometimes that can be our approach, isn't it, to our giving?
Lord, I want this, and I want to give you that, and whoops, this didn't happen, so I guess that was your portion.
We still want to do what we want to do.
As we summarize where we've been in this series on stewardship, I'd like just to share a few things for on the screen
as a summary of kind of where we've been as it leads us into where we're going today.
Seven benefits to giving in our lives.
The first one is that giving makes us more like God.
We've explored that in different ways, but God's heart is to give.
And as we desire to be made more like Jesus Christ, that our character is formed like His,
as we give, we become more like the character of God our Father.
Giving will draw you closer to God.
God calls us to be givers.
And our giving will make us more in touch with His heart and draw us closer to the Lord.
Giving breaks, as we've talked about, the grip that our hearts can have for material things.
It can break our materialism by keeping us soft and keeping us healthy in terms of a perspective of what's really important in the world.
Giving will strengthen our faith
because we're going to have to trust the Lord
if we're going to give Him a significant portion
of what He's already given to us.
It strengthens our faith.
It's an investment for eternity.
An investment for eternity.
It will bless you in return as you give.
We talked about the measure in which you give
is the measure it's given back to you.
It blesses you.
And finally, giving will simply make you happy.
You will give with cheerfulness as God begins to mold your heart in those directions.
It will make you happy.
And with those benefits of giving to the Lord,
I just want to challenge us, who can refuse to be generous
with the things that God has given us as we give back to Him?
Who could desire to not acquire these things?
I want to be about those things.
And I want us all to be givers with joy from our hearts.
There's two more passages I want us to reflect on as we conclude this series.
And the first one is in Matthew 6.21.
And it's the topic of the issue of treasure.
A short verse, but Jesus said it poignantly,
Wherever your treasure is, there your heart and thoughts will be also.
Where your treasure is, there your hearts and thoughts will be also.
Jesus said that because we are tied to our treasure.
We are stuck to our stuff.
And we grasp at our goods.
Where our treasure is, that is where our heart is.
Where our treasure is, there are our thoughts.
Where our treasure is, that determines what consumes our life and our soul.
Where you put your treasure is where your heart will follow eventually.
It always happens this way.
As creatures, we're tied to our treasure.
One of the key ways that we can worship the Lord
and place our hearts in heaven is to give to heaven.
because our hearts will follow where our treasure is.
Where you put your treasure is where your heart is.
The Apostle Paul wrote this, I think, knowing underneath this principle.
He wrote in 1 Corinthians 16,
On every Lord's Day, each of you should put aside some amount of money
in relation to what you have earned and save it for this offering.
Paul was instructing the Corinthians in this chapter,
these Corinthian Christians, to be very intentional
about what their offering would be.
And he challenges each person to set aside money,
intentionally, all of them, with purpose and forethought.
Later in 2 Corinthians 9, he encourages them this way,
You must each make up your mind as to how much you should give.
Don't give reluctantly or in response to pressure,
for God loves the person who gives cheerfully, cheerfully.
Once again, we see an admonition to be intentional with our giving.
Friends, today we are asking as we give our offering after this message
that we might be intentional as we purpose in our hearts
what we're going to give,
that we might begin in our process
of looking at ministry for next year,
know where we stand.
We want us to decide before we get here
and be purposeful in our giving.
Why?
Because where I put my treasure,
my heart will go there eventually.
We must be intentional in our worship.
We really don't often think
about what we're doing with our giving sometimes.
I'd like for us to, for a moment, to reflect on the experience of the checkout counter.
I'm often there, two small kids.
The racks are full of things that you didn't intend to go into the store to buy, did you?
And they place them there at eye level for a six-year-old,
just so they can pester you for the next seven minutes.
Daddy, look at this. Daddy, how about this?
Can we smell this? Can we taste this?
Can we try this? How about this? On and on and on.
I don't intend to go into the store to buy gum or Snickers or Milky Way.
And I'm pretty good, actually, about saying no.
But it's sometimes in my own weakness.
Oh, just one. And we plop it there.
And it rides the little belt, and we ring it up, and it's 65 cents or 95 cents.
It's really no big deal in the big picture.
It's just a couple of bucks.
But you know, I got some statistics I heard
that Americans spend $2.5 billion for chewing gum a year.
It's just a couple of bucks.
But it adds up, doesn't it?
$2.9 billion is spent in arcade games in our country.
$12 billion on candy.
And only $1.7 billion on worldwide evangelism.
You can see the disparity in spending in our country.
How much do you have in your budget for chewing gum this coming year?
I don't budget for chewing gum, but I spend on it sometimes.
At the checkout counter, let's be honest, we spend extra with no forethought.
And it's easy sometimes to do that in our church.
We can look in our wallet that week, and if there's 50 bucks, we can tithe right out of our wallet.
Well, Lord, here's your five.
and we can give God a tip
with no forethought
or perhaps if the service was pretty good,
we'll give God a decent tip that week.
Maybe I should put the offering after the sermon every week.
Might get a few more tips, I don't know.
But God, friends, doesn't want our tip.
He wants our intentional giving
as an act of holy worship.
Holy worship.
He wants it intentional with joy as an offering made unto the Lord
because it's holy and it's His as an act of worship.
And here's what that might look like.
And I'm challenged.
I don't do this, but I need to.
Do you receive your paycheck and thank God for the ability to earn it,
for the ability to use the gifts and the talents that you have
to make the money that you've brought in
and then thank the Lord for the goodness
of having a job to begin with
and then take that check
and with gladness say,
Lord, thank you.
And wouldn't it be great
if we all with an attitude of gratitude
each and every pay period said,
Lord, thank you
and moved the decimal place over
and gave unto the Lord the first fruits
as an act of worship.
Can you imagine what that would do
to our life of our church
and to our own hearts each and every week or two weeks
or once a month, however it comes to you.
Will we take God at his word?
Will we trust him with our lives and our giving?
The first issue is treasure.
The second one has to do with trust.
Now back to that checkout counter.
How many of you, I don't have to raise your hands,
but how many this week have read the National Enquirer?
Inquiring minds want to know, you know?
I mean, not a lot of you.
All right, well, fair enough.
There's maybe not a lot of truth there.
It might be interesting reading.
It might bring a smile to your face, but it's probably not really true.
I haven't seen a lot of alien babies lately.
I don't know.
You'd think you'd see more, given how every week there seems to be a new one born.
Just a thought.
Maybe People magazine.
More truth, but you know, probably not all true.
What about the Bible?
Did we read the Scripture this week?
That is 100% true.
All of it.
And do we believe it and live it and live it out in our lives?
2,000 verses about money that challenge us from different perspectives.
And it's God's perspective on our treasure.
Do we know what it is and do we live it out?
I want to share one of the most challenging to me and eye-popping verses
about tithing and giving that's in the Scripture.
We've studied it before, but I share it again for us.
From Malachi chapter 3, the word is,
I am the Lord, and I do not change.
That is why you descendants of Jacob are not already completely destroyed.
Ever since the days of your ancestors,
You have scorned my laws and failed to obey them.
Now return to me, and I will return to you, says the Lord Almighty.
But you ask, how can we return when we have never gone away?
Should people cheat God?
Yet you have cheated me.
But you ask, what do you mean?
When did we ever cheat you?
You have cheated me of the tithes and the offerings due to me.
You are under a curse, for your whole nation has been cheating me.
Bring all the tithes into the storehouse, so there will be enough food in my temple.
And if you do, says the Lord Almighty, I will open the windows of heaven for you.
I will pour out a blessing so great, you won't have enough room to take it in.
Try it. Let me prove it to you.
Your crops will be abundant, for I will guard them from insects and disease.
Your grapes will not shrivel before they are ripe, says the Lord Almighty.
Then all the nations will call you blessed, for your land will be such a delight, says the Lord Almighty.
God is speaking to the nation of Israel.
A people at the time of the writing that had grown cold in their love and their worship of the Lord.
They were more interested in other things.
They were more interested in pursuing other interests.
They didn't make time for God.
And they didn't give God the first fruits of what he had given to them.
We know that where our treasure is, there our hearts will be also.
And in this setting, the people's hearts were far from God,
and God wanted their hearts.
Most of all, He wants our hearts.
He's always wanted our hearts, and today He wants your hearts.
Where we put our treasure, that's where our heart goes.
And God asks us to give the first tenth of our income,
and the Scriptures say the first tenth is holy and belongs to the Lord.
But it's hard. It's really hard, isn't it, to give that first tenth.
It is really hard to give the first tenth.
I know. I struggled for years.
It's a lot easier to give the last tenth, isn't it?
After the bills are paid and all the fun has been expended and all the good things have been done,
it's a lot easier to give when there's some leftover, if there's anything at all.
But the first tenth, that's hard.
That's a sacrifice.
That's really intentional.
That's trusting the Lord that he'll provide for the rest of our life.
See, it's a faith issue.
And God knows what he's doing by asking us to live that experience out
because he wants us to trust him because he wants our whole hearts.
And where our treasure is, there our heart will be also.
As I said, we struggled with this.
and it took some time for us to finally get up to tithing.
We had to ramp into that experience.
We worked at it, and we cut things, and we rearranged things.
We made life decisions based on these principles.
But I'm happy to say that God has allowed us to be there,
and that we've been faithful not to brag to you, but to say it works.
It works.
When you trust God and you give out of blessing, there's blessing that comes.
And my wife and I and family are living examples of this experience.
And there are many in this room today that live this out.
And if I were to ask you to stand and give a testimony, you could say, it works.
It works.
I like the story of the little boy that so trusts God that he goes to the pond
and pulls out the biggest fish he could carry.
and he takes it back to the market
and he flops this big thing up on the counter
and the grocer fish market gentleman
buys the fish from him
and the little boy says I'm so excited
I'm going to give all of this to the church
because I love God.
The grocer said I'm not sure Sonny
that you have to do that.
He says oh yes it's okay
because now I'm going to get the other nine fish.
I love the heart of that little boy.
That is trust, isn't it?
That's trust.
From this passage, God wants the whole tithe in his house.
He wants it to come in.
In those days, they put the grain in the temple,
and the grain was distributed.
And all the stuff that we do, friends,
is from your tithes and offerings.
All that we accomplish through ministry
is because of the grain, if you will,
that you bring to the storehouse,
that we might bless you back and bless this community
and then even give it to missions for locally and around the world.
The challenge for us is to bring it and give it as worship
and let God use it and use it for ministry here and around the world.
The second thing out of this is a challenge for us
because it says, test me in this.
Test me in this.
and I just have to say again
not as just the preacher
but as a fellow journey person
along the way with my family
we have tested God
we have struggled to let him
be faithful in this area of our giving
and he has met us there every time
and I would encourage you
if there needs to be changes in your lifestyle
trust him
it's good
it's worth it
it's a blessing when you do it
and now we give willingly
and from our hearts as worship, and it's a blessing.
It just, it does, it breaks the grip of materialism that still pervades our culture.
And we say, no, we're Christians.
We live according to the scriptures under the love of the most holy God.
And this is our offering.
May that be our experience, one and all.
I want to conclude with a story I heard about John Maxwell and his son.
and John is kind of a favorite leader in the area of leadership,
and I appreciate his ministry and his stories.
And apparently he and his younger son, John Porter, were leaving a McDonald's at one time,
and young John Porter had ordered a large fries and a Coke,
and as they're driving down the freeway, dad tries to steal a fry.
You ever done that? I try that.
Just one, just reach over there and kind of pull it out of that little red packet
it and slip it between your teeth. And basically, as John is reaching, his younger son says,
hey, back off. And John shares that three thoughts went through his head as he's driving
down the freeway with his ingratiated son next to him. First thing he thought is, you
know what? Dad paid for those fries. Dad paid for those fries. Who does he think he
is. Second thought was, I don't need your fries. I can buy all the fries I want. I don't need your
stupid fry was in essence what he thought. But as he became more rational and the emotion of the
moment passed, he thought this, son, I want you to be a boy that grows up to be a giver and a
generous person. That's really what he wanted for the life of his son. And friends, that I think is
God's heart for us. God has paid for the fries. He gives us everything that we have. God's desire
is that we be the kind of people that have hearts like his heart, that's generous and giving. And
he knows that where our hearts are is where the treasure is. So put our treasure in heaven and
our hearts will follow. And it makes us into generous, giving people. And so that's my
final challenge as we end this series. And in just a few moments, we're going to, if
you will, take the test and give God our intentional giving and say, Lord, we're going to trust
you and give you as a holy act of worship. And we're going to see if God does not open
the floodgates and pour down blessing in our lives and hear the stories throughout the year
of how we didn't know how we were going to make it that month and out of nowhere god blesses and
provides what we need he's a god who does that kind of thing i've lived it out many of you are
nodding because you've lived out those moments lord i don't know where it's going to come from
And then he provides.
It's the kind of God we serve.
I wonder sometimes if he doesn't move the universe just to teach us those things,
to make it so that it seems like we're going to miss,
and then he arranges for the check and the mail to come through just the right time.
That's the kind of God, sovereign Lord, that we serve.
And sometimes it's stressful, but it's often very fun to watch him provide for us
as we trust Him and we give.
I want us to tell the stories this coming year
about how God has blessed as we give Him
the first fruits of what He's first given us.
And so with that, I call the ushers forward
and we're going to stand and we're going to pray
and we're going to take those purple cards
and I'm praying that you are prayerfully
and have prayerfully considered your giving
as an intentional act of holy worship,
and that as we take them, this would be a holy moment.
And we're going to pray, and then we're going to sing.
Great is thy faithfulness, for he is faithful.
And may that be a heart cry today.
The ushers would come at this point
and stand here at the front,
and let us pray that God's Spirit
would fill us with joy as we give.
let's pray father we thank you for the many verses of scripture that teach us about how
you're molding us into generous and loving and giving people father we thank you that from these
gifts and these tithes and these offerings and these commitments you're going to multiply ministry
in this place and around the world and that you're going to challenge us and change us and encourage
us as we trust you so Lord take these offerings use them bless them and we
look forward to seeing what you'll do in our midst as a result of our trusting
you and putting our treasure in heaven and allowing our hearts to follow so
Lord we do we take the test we trust you may this now be a defining moment in our
soul as we say this day in 2002 we stepped out and we trusted our God we
love you may this offering and this the symbol of many offerings to come may
this be a blessing to you as well together God's people said in Jesus name
and by his authority amen
