Thank you, Betty. Good morning. We continue in this series on worship. And so for a few moments, I'm going to be talking about praise and worship.
And then we're going to continue by singing and praising and worshiping. We welcome you to be a part of that this morning. God bless you all as we gather.
I want to share a short story. There were two young newlyweds preparing to enjoy their very first baked ham dinner in their new apartment.
You can just imagine what that's all about.
And after unwrapping the meat and setting it on the cutting board,
the young bride, she chopped off both ends of the ham, just like that,
and threw the pieces away.
And the mystified young husband said, why did you do that?
She said, I don't know.
My mother always did.
Maybe it helps bring out the flavor.
Well, the husband was not satisfied with that answer,
and so he immediately called his mother-in-law,
got her on the phone and said can you tell me why you would cut off the ends of the ham before you
cook it and she said well i'm i'm not really sure that's just the way my mother used to do it and
it was always delicious well as soon as he hung up with her he called grandma grandma we've got a
very important question for you can you tell us why you kept cutting off the ends of a ham before
you cook it. She said, oh, yes, my dear. In her quiet, thin voice, I cut the ends of the ham off
so it would fit in my pan. Traditions. Traditions can be so wonderful. They can minister to us.
They can speak to us. They can enrich us. But they can also become, over time, without careful
attention, lifeless forms that lose their meaning. Worshiping the living God is an act that our
bodies and souls can lift our spirits and connect with God Most High. But forms of worship, if we're
not careful, can become hollow and usual and even dead. In the current evangelical church today,
Worship has often been boiled down to, in what one person has said, a few songs and a lecture.
Is there more?
That's the question.
If God is the audience and we are the participants and the worship leaders are the prompters,
can we offer God more?
It's an important question.
A.W. Tozer, great writer of our last century, said,
Worship is the missing jewel of the evangelical church.
Strong statement.
Similarly, theologian Karl Barth said,
Christian worship is the most momentous, the most urgent, the most glorious action that can take place in human life.
I think Barth is right.
But do we live like this?
It's one thing to see it in words and to nod our heads.
It's another to live as if worship was truly the most momentous, urgent, glorious action that we can ever participate in.
Do we live as his people to worship?
Do we expectantly come to church to gather with God's people and expect God to receive our worship
and for God to speak to you and change you?
Is that the attitude with which we come?
And I have to confess, over the years, that hasn't been my attitude.
The Bible says, let everything that has breath praise the Lord.
Let everything that has breath praise the Lord.
Is that our heart's cry that we say, yes, Lord, let everything that has breath praise the Lord?
I'd like to share a few words from an author in Discipleship Journal a few issues back.
The author writes, the experience of the presence of God in worship and praise
is readily available to all who know Jesus Christ.
Yet most of us, the writer says, fail to enter into his presence.
We often come away from corporate worship never touching him.
Even our private times of quietness in the word and in prayer
fail to bring us into the holy place.
Our worship degenerates into ritual
and our spiritual lives become arid and lifeless.
Like the majority of the people in that sanctuary,
we miss the quieting presence of God in the midst of our praise and our worship.
But I don't know how to praise, one man admitted during an evening Bible study.
I didn't grow up as a Christian, and praise has not been a part of my life all these years.
I just don't have any experience.
But then when the home team scores a touchdown,
That same man jumps out of his chair, yelling and cheering and screaming at the TV set.
And to anyone who asks, he will give a glowing account of the merits of the woman that he married.
And even those who don't ask are regaled with the exploits of their new grandson.
We do know how to praise.
We praise our diets.
We praise our cars.
We praise our VCRs and DVDs and subwoofers and surround sound.
We praise all these things.
We extol the value and the virtues of the things we most cherish in life.
Yet, the author says, we need to learn how to praise God.
What is praise?
What is praise?
Praise is the act of expressing your gratitude, your admiration, your commendation.
It's a way of giving your applause to something that you value, that you find great and wonderful.
And when your home team scores the touchdown, we praise them.
I'll never forget one time studying as a high school kid.
And for some reason I was busily working on an exam coming up and my father was watching the 49ers.
It was the 80s.
They were on that roll.
And it was that Joe Montana starting from the one-yard line all the way to the end.
And I was so busy in chemistry, I just couldn't watch the game.
And my father is screaming and jumping and leaping about the living room.
Scared me.
Never seen my father act this way before.
He was into it.
And they won, praise the Lord, for you Niner fans.
None here, I guess.
Just me.
Oh, okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
You see, we know how to praise the things that we love and that make us excited.
For some reason, though, we come to church and we squelch all of that.
And yet, if God is the thing we love the most, can we not give him praise and glory and honor?
There are three outcomes, not only of corporate praise, but also a lifestyle of praise in your personal life.
I'd like to share them with you.
Number one, the habit of praise, the repetitive process of giving God praise, it renews our faith.
It renews our faith.
Praise keeps God's grace in Jesus Christ fresh and vivid in front of our eyes.
You've seen, friends, how muscles grow stronger when you exercise them, right?
You ever seen a limb come out of a cast?
You ever seen that?
It's icky, isn't it?
It's thin.
It's scaly.
It's atrophied.
It's stiff.
And you have to work it slowly and build the muscle back up.
And that repetitive motion, the doing and the squeezing and the lifting and all of those things,
build that muscle tissue back up strong once again.
Well, you know, friends, praise grows stronger as well as we exercise it.
The more that we do it, we're flexing and building that muscle.
And we're doing it to honor our Lord.
How can we not want to exercise and sweat and push and press for our Lord?
And so one of the ways that we praise, one of the biblical ways we praise, is through song.
Why song?
I've thought about that a number of different times.
Why is it that around the world the people of God praise and give God glory and extol Him?
why through song? What is it about song that is so important for people to do? I think because songs
do two things at once. The text and the words and the meanings of songs touch our heads. They allow
us to express our thoughts, but the music feeds our souls and our hearts. Songs mean things to us
on different levels, head and heart, at the same time.
I think that's why God wants us to sing a new song,
because it ministers to our head and our hearts,
and we give to God from our head and our hearts at the same time.
Donald Hustad said in Leadership Magazine,
Somehow, about 40% of churchgoers seem to have picked up the idea
that singing in church is for the singers.
And he says the truth is, singing is for believers.
The relevant question is not, do you have a voice, but do you have a song?
That's for all of us.
That's for all of us.
You may not be trained.
You may not have vibrato.
You may not have falsetto.
You may not have proper breathing.
You may not have all those things, but it doesn't matter to the Lord
because he wants your head and your heart as you give him a song,
as squeaky and gravelly or beautiful and polished.
It doesn't matter.
It blesses the Lord.
And so friends, if you're self-conscious about the person in front of you, don't worry about it.
Not your problem.
It's not their problem.
Because God wants to hear you give from your head and your heart.
Can you do that?
All of us.
As a way to worship and give Him praise.
Do you desire a greater life of praise?
Then we have to practice.
If we're going to practice and stretch and flex that muscle, we have to be here, friends.
here's my challenge. Please come to worship. I know that sounds basic. That sounds like baby
steps. I know. But in our highly mobile culture, in our highly choice-riddled culture, it's so easy
to skip here and there. And you know what happens? You're here one every four to six weeks.
And if you really want to be in a habit of praising, it's hard to corporately praise
when you're not here.
If I'm offending you, I'm sorry.
I'm just trying to tell you in my heart,
we need to be here.
You need to be here, and others need you to be here.
Because when you're not here, somebody else loses.
Do you know that?
Your presence blesses somebody else.
You may not know who you're affecting,
but you're affecting somebody
by your presence and your absence.
And we need to make worship a priority.
And I know it's countercultural.
And the neighbors are getting up,
and they got their jogging suits on.
And they've got the dogs.
They're going to the park and the beach and racquetball and tennis.
I know all those things.
They're going surfing and Disney and all that stuff.
And you get up, get in your car, and you head to church.
It's bizarre, I know.
We're in a culture that does not understand anymore what you're doing here.
But God has called you to be here.
And he wants you to be here.
Not to manipulate you because he wants to bless you.
And he wants you to bless him.
And that happens when the church gathers together.
And so I want us to see this time not as just a routine that's hollow
because we just do it every seven days,
but because we're here to meet with our God.
So please come.
Enter into the life of praise.
Sing unto God with all of your being.
Give God thanks in your quiet times at home with him.
And when you're praying, give him praise.
Sing a song in the Lord to the Lord in your car.
Sing a song on the way to church to prepare your heart for corporate worship together.
There's lots of ways that you can begin a life of faithful praise.
And friends, I will put this test out there.
If you come and worship God and give Him your heart and really seek to honor Him over six months,
I trust you will be a different person.
Try it.
Psalm 95 says,
Come, let us sing to the Lord.
Let us give a joyous shout to the rock of our salvation.
Let us come before him with thanksgiving.
Let us sing him psalms of praise, for the Lord is a great God.
The great King above all gods, he owns the depths of the earth,
and even the mightiest mountains are his.
The sea belongs to him, for he made it.
His hands formed the dry land too.
Come, let us worship and bow down.
Let us kneel before the Lord, our maker, for he is our God.
We are the people he watches over, the sheep under his care.
The habit of praise, the lifestyle of praise, strengthens and renews our faith.
Faith is fed by worship.
We welcome you to come and grow your faith as you grow in worship.
Number two, the lessons of praise.
The lessons of praise shape our perspective.
When we come and give God praise, when we come and give him adoration,
we put life back into perspective, don't we?
We realize when we give God glory and praise, we realize he is God and I am not.
We put things back into perspective that he is in control and we are not.
All of our life management is still an illusion
because God is ultimately the one in control.
We can try and shape things and we can do a decent job,
but ultimately God is in control.
He is God and we are not.
And through praise, we remember that reality.
Despite all the busyness in our lives,
all the hurry, all the stress,
all the suffocating tyranny of the urgent,
through praise, we realize that God is God
and that brings us into a place of peace
and allows us to rest.
And put life into perspective again.
We need that.
We need that every few days to remember who's in charge of life.
And to give us peace.
The Bible says in Psalm 46.10, great short sentence, says it all.
Be still and know that I am God.
Be still.
We're in a busy culture, friends.
We're in a loud culture.
And we need to draw away and be still.
And through praise and worship, we know that he is God.
A poet once wrote this.
We mutter, we sputter, we fume and we spurt.
We mumble and grumble, our feelings get hurt.
We can't understand things, our vision grows dim,
when all that we need is a moment with him.
Amen is right.
It says it all, doesn't it?
Worship puts things back into perspective.
A lifestyle of praise, both privately and corporately,
It gives our souls the proper perspective about life.
Through worship, friends, we learn to fret less and desire God more.
Eugene Peterson said this.
He said, worship does not satisfy our hunger for God.
It wets our appetite.
Do you want to know God more?
Do you want to have more hunger for Him?
The more we worship, the more we give praise to God,
the more we desire to know God more fully,
the more we crave his power and his presence in our lives.
I've found that when we praise more, we hold on to life a little more loosely.
Through praise and worship, we're reminded that everything is God's.
We realize our lives, our homes, our jobs, our money, our problems, our stresses, our worries,
all of it is God's.
And those realities come together when we sing and praise and worship.
Psalm 24 becomes our anthem.
The earth is the Lord's, and everything in it, the world and all its people belong to Him.
For He laid the earth's foundation on the seas and built it on the ocean's depths.
It's all His.
Coming together in worship, we put that into perspective.
Friends, do you need encouragement?
Seek God through praise.
Does your worldview need adjusting?
Enter God's presence through worship and praise.
Do you need to let go of some things in your life?
Come and grab onto the corporate worship of God and let some things go.
Do you need more of God in your life?
Pursue him through praise.
You see, the lessons of praise, they shape our perspective.
And finally, the power of praise, it energizes our conduct.
One reality that we need to remember is that a life mimics what you worship.
What you worship is what you become like.
If you worship superficial things, your life becomes superficial.
Have you seen that around you?
When people worship the things that really don't matter,
their lives take on that character quality as well.
If you worship perverted things, your life becomes perverted.
If you worship evil things, your life becomes evil.
If you worship the true God, your life becomes godly.
And so coming and praising and worshiping shapes us and changes us
and energizes our conduct as we try and be more like Jesus.
A big part of our spiritual walk, a big part of our Christian faith is our spiritual formation.
Spiritual formation is a term whereby a process, we become more and more like Jesus
in our character, in our attitude, in our power, in our perspective.
it's a multi-dimensional process
but we are consciously
saying we want to be more
like Jesus Christ
and forming our spirits
is a process we enter into by the Holy Spirit
whereby in our lives
and through others shaping and molding
us we take on the character
and the qualities of our Lord
and praise
allows us to nourish
the Spirit's movement in our lives
in Galatians 5
22. Many of you know this. Just a wonderful description
of what happens when the Spirit controls our lives. He says, Paul says,
when the Holy Spirit controls our lives, He will produce this kind
of fruit in us. Love, joy,
peace, patience, kindness,
goodness, faithfulness,
gentleness, and self-control. We want to know
what a believer in Jesus looks like?
They're a person filled with love and joy
and peace and patience and so on.
The more we praise God,
the more our heart becomes open to being loving.
The more I give my life to the Lord through praise,
the more I sense the joy of the Lord.
The more I offer up to God my love and affirmation of Him,
the more I'm able to sense His peace in my life.
The more I touch God's heart through praise, the more my heart becomes patient with others.
And on and on it goes.
The more we praise, the more we surrender our lives and give God all that he's due,
the more our character becomes shaped like this in the fruit of the Spirit.
And so through praise and worship, my life becomes a field that's ready for the Lord to plow it up
and plant seed and allow those seeds to grow into the fruit of the Spirit.
and the more that we're open then to the farmer
harvesting these fruits in us.
The power of praise, it energizes and fuels our conduct.
And so in conclusion, before we do some praising and worshiping,
are you ready, church, for more of the Lord in your life?
Are you ready?
Are you ready for more of the Lord's power and presence
here at this place, at this church,
on Sundays and Wednesdays
and when we gather as the body together?
If you're ready, then lift up your praise today, for he is worthy.
Praise the Lord.
David, would you lead us?
