About a month and a half ago, my little basketball team met Marsha's basketball team, and my little basketball team got skunked really bad.
But yesterday, we tied, which for our team was really a miracle, but we tied 22 to 22.
now that's if you project a little youth basketball game to a full adult basketball game that almost
approaches a real scoring kind of experience and to see my little tykes out there playing hard
was just a blessing what's really a blessing is to see them at our halftimes at practice
hearing the gospel every week as different leaders from this church come and share
and we're looking forward to seeing them come at the closing ceremonies
and we're going to share the gospel again and what a fun experience that has all been.
So even though I had little voice yesterday, I was screaming and yelling and so excited.
Using that place for basketball ministry has been such a blessing
and I want to thank Jim and Phil and others who have been such a meaningful leadership team
as we've been reaching out and charting new territory.
Thank you for your ministry and your work.
Well, as we begin our message this morning, in our age of materialism and consumerism,
and I'm going to call it bold self-absorption,
you'd think we'd find a lot of really happy, satisfied people, wouldn't you?
You'd think that given all those pursuits,
that those who have wealth and power and prestige would be really satisfied,
and yet underneath, when they get really honest, they're really not.
because beneath all the plastic smiles and supposedly self-assured hearts,
really we find anxious, lost, and confused people.
People today are looking for meaning and blessing in their lives.
They're looking for their lives to count for something.
They want to find the path that leads to meaning and contentment.
And I'm here to say that Jesus, the most intelligent man on earth,
And God, come in the flesh, addressed this issue in an upside-down statement he made.
He said in Matthew 10, 39, he said this,
If you cling to your life, you will lose it.
But if you give it up for me, you will find it.
Completely upside-down, isn't it?
If you cling to your life, you'll lose it.
But if you give it up for me, you will find it.
Jesus is saying that the path to blessing is not the path of self-absorption.
The path of blessing is not in finding yourself by obsessing on yourself.
The path to blessing is in giving yourself away.
When you lower yourself to serve the needs of others,
you're actually elevated in the eyes of God.
And to be elevated in the eyes of God is to find real life.
And Jesus modeled that kind of life.
And he modeled it in experience that we're going to read about in this journey through John.
As we move quickly through this gospel, we see him modeling servanthood to the disciples.
In John 13, if you want to turn there or follow along, we start in verse 1 of chapter 13 of John.
John writes,
Because before the Passover celebration, Jesus knew that his hour had come to leave this world and return to his Father.
He now showed the disciples the full extent of his love.
It was time for supper and the devil had already enticed Judas, son of Simon Iscariot, to carry out his plan to betray Jesus.
Jesus knew that the Father had given him authority over everything,
and that he had come from God and would return to God.
So he got up from the table, took off his robe,
and wrapped the towel around his waist,
and poured water into a little basin.
And then he began to wash the disciples' feet
and to wipe them with the towel he had around him.
When he came to Simon Peter, Peter said to him,
Lord, why are you going to wash my feet?
And Jesus replied, You don't understand now why I'm doing it. Someday you will.
No, Peter protested. You will never wash my feet.
And Jesus replied, But if I don't wash you, you won't belong to me.
Simon Peter exclaimed, Then wash my hands and my head as well. Lord, just not my feet.
Jesus replied, A person who has bathed all over does not need to wash,
except for the feet to be entirely clean and you are clean but that isn't true of everyone here
for jesus knew who would betray him that is what he meant when he said not all of you are clean
and after washing their feet he put his robe on again and sat down and asked do you understand
what i was doing you call me teacher and lord and you are right because it is true and since i the
Lord and teacher have washed your feet, you ought to wash each
other's feet. I have given you an example to follow.
Do as I have done unto you. How true it is that a servant
is not greater than the master, nor are messengers more important
than the one who sends them. You know these things, now do
them. That is the path of blessing. That is the path
of blessing. The path of blessing
taught by Jesus at the celebration of the Passover,
which was a meal commemorating a defining moment in Jewish history
when God spared the lives of the Jews
and delivered them from the clutches of the Egyptian pharaoh.
At this meal, at this gathering,
Jesus takes a lowly deed
and makes a life-changing, a culture-challenging application
that speaks right into our world today.
Imagine those roads, dirty roads.
dusty roads dirty dusty stinky feet are you with me you can almost smell the odor coming right off
the pages it reminds me of the most awful odiferous moment if i can coin that word i ever
had was right down the street by disneyland my senior year of high school we took that senior
trip the buses all night long down to disneyland and my friend greg you've met him before he's been
here. He's a missionary, my dearest friend from those days. In the 80s, now I'm dating myself,
but in the 80s, vans were like the new thing. And the vans that slip on. And Greg wore vans
slip-ons with no socks at Disneyland in the summer. And what was amazing was about halfway
through the day, every step he took, he said, ow, ow, ow, ow, ow, ow. Because the skin had
rubbed right off his toes and he was just raw well after a full day of ow ow ow ow in canvas shoes
with no socks in the summer at disneyland we ended up in the motel four of us in the room
and he took off the shoes you know lunch is coming so to speak it was so awful we put them
into where you put your clothes the dresser stuck him in the dresser closed the door still
stunk up the room so bad we had to put them outside the door to be left all night and still
his feet were a disaster and the room was awful and when i think about these disciples and their
dirty feet my friends greg's bruised scarred bloody stinky feet come to my mind so when jesus
bends down to wash their dirty feet. It has an impact on me. It would have made a big
impact on these disciples. Not only because of the stench that come with dirty, dusty
feet and sandals worn all day. No Dr. Scholls, no odor eaters, nothing like that. Just a
servant washing your feet. Well because that event
that washing your feet was so awful, in fact
it was something that even Jewish slaves were exempt from
doing. That was left for the Gentiles. That's how
low down this event is. And there's no way that a
person of higher status is going to be caught washing somebody else's
feet. That is just lower than low. However, it's
Also in the context, if a husband washes a wife's feet
or vice versa, or a child for the parents
or a student for the teacher,
it was also seen as an extreme act of devotion
because it was such a humble, lowly thing.
And so when Jesus takes up this towel and a basin,
he is demonstrating service and love in a profound way.
So before the meal, Jesus the master,
Jesus, the rabbi, Jesus, the leader, takes off his garment, wraps the towel,
and begins to wash the feet of the disciples.
And he takes on the posture of a slave.
His life was lived as a servant.
He's living out this expression from Philippians chapter 2.
Many of you know this.
Your attitude should be that of Christ Jesus.
Though he was God, he did not demand and cling to his rights as God.
He made himself nothing.
He took the humble position of a slave and appeared in human form.
And in human form, he obediently humbled himself further by dying a criminal's death on a cross.
Because of this, God raised him up to the heights of heaven
and gave him a name that is above every other name,
so that at the name of Jesus, every knee will bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth,
and every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord
to the glory of God the Father.
Amen.
Jesus, that Jesus, to the heights of heaven,
is now washing the feet of the disciples.
You can imagine that jovial conversation that they were having
dies down very quickly as Jesus begins to wash their feet.
You can almost see them exchanging those uneasy glances.
You know, what is he doing? I don't know. What is he doing?
You could just see that nervousness rise in the room.
What in the world is he doing?
You could see them sitting there in shock.
This can't be.
Nobody speaks up.
Don't Peter.
Of course Peter.
And Peter objects.
Lord, you can't do this.
Jesus replied, but if I don't wash you, you don't belong to me.
So Peter decides, I want the inheritance, all right?
Wash me completely.
And in this amazing drama, the master serving the students, the leader tending to the followers,
God in the flesh tenderly loving his followers,
we see a picture of the upcoming cross whereby Jesus will cleanse them all once and for all.
Because through the sacrificial blood of Jesus that was going to flow,
the followers, the disciples then, the disciples us today,
are made clean in the eyes of God.
Friends, when you're clean in the eyes of God, listen, your future is certain.
When you're clean in the eyes of God, your future is certain and your past is forgiven.
Future certain.
Past forgiven.
And your present, the now, is free to serve others with a love that comes from God.
With your future certain, your past forgiven, you're free now to love other people.
because you're not caught up in pursuing what everybody else is pursuing.
You know where you're going.
You've been cleansed from the past.
You now can live authentically now on the path of blessing by loving other people,
even if they don't understand.
It doesn't matter because the Lord understands.
He's got your future.
He's cleaned your past.
You can live now in loving others.
A great illustration of that, very poignant to me,
It comes from a man named Dr. Robertson McQuilkin, who is president of Columbia Bible College and Seminary.
And he resigned his post as a great leader in the church, a great leader and scholar and training position of training future leaders.
He resigned from the post to care for his wife to come down with Alzheimer's.
And of course, this great leader was encouraged by many well-meaning people
to simply say, it's all right, put her in a special facility.
You've got to continue your ministry.
You've got to continue your leadership.
Surely you must continue in your life's work.
But he resigned and took care of her.
He said this, it is more than keeping promises and being fair.
He said, as I watch her brave descent into oblivion, Muriel is the joy of my life.
He said, daily I discern new manifestations of the kind of person that she is.
The wife I've always loved.
I also see fresh manifestations of God's love.
The God I long to love more fully.
A man at the top of his professional game.
a great leader an inspiring teacher and writer gave it all up willingly to serve his wife in
declining health his future was certain his past was forgiven his present was free to fulfill the
vow that he made at the altar to love and to cherish in sickness and in health until death
to us part and in loving her and serving her in that illness he discovered he had more love for
her he discovered and taking care of her in the menial tasks of the day-to-day that he found he
had more love for god and he experienced god's love in a profound way he found a profound meaning in
his life that was not fully discovered in all the professional accomplishments though those were
exciting. He found a richness in his walk with Jesus and serving his ailing wife. As a young
man, that touches me. I can only imagine what that would be like. Some of you live that perhaps today.
I hope that's an encouragement to you. That's the power of the cross in our lives. With the
forgiveness and cleansing that Jesus offers us, we're free to boldly serve others in unexpected
ways. We're free to follow God's leading
in our lives. Later, Jesus would say this to his disciples.
He would say, so now I'm giving you a new commandment.
Love each other just as I've loved you. You should love
each other. Your love for one another will prove to the
world that you are my disciples. Well, the disciples
loving each other is nothing new, but to love each other
with the kind of love modeled by Jesus.
Now that is dramatic.
And to truly love each other is to pursue a life of servanthood and sacrifice
as we encourage and love each other.
And from doing that, we find deep meaning in our lives,
but it also points others to Jesus.
It points others to Jesus.
You see, service and love for each other is a mark that Jesus is really in our midst.
That Jesus is really real.
That there's a power beyond just our drumming up our desire to love somebody else.
To love sacrificially like that comes because God has touched our lives.
And it points others to Jesus.
Yes, Christians are to love all peoples, but we are to especially love each other within the church.
Fellow brothers and sisters in the Lord, we're to really love those because they are family.
Today, people are asking this question, is your experience with Christ really real?
They'll buy into there's a God out there.
They'll buy into spirituality.
What they're really asking is, does your experience with Jesus, is it really real?
Is it really real?
Does it manifest itself in something real?
The great pastor and theologian Bruce Milne said this,
that the church is designated as a community
which welcomes all people,
irrespective of background, age, gender, color,
and moral history, social status, influence,
intelligence, religious background, or the lack of it.
To love like Jesus is to love inclusively,
indiscriminately and universally when that kind of love flows within a congregation the world
will take note that they have been with jesus that's when the community takes note do people
see jesus in our actions toward each other here at fullerton first do we really love each other
within this church or are we just friendly do we really love each other what about those with
different political views? Can we still love each other really, honestly, from the core of our being?
What about those with different views on different doctrines? Can we still love them authentically?
Do we love those who are different from ourselves? The richness of a multi-generational church is a
variety of people in different ages and stages. The challenge is we're in different ages and stages
and sometimes hard to communicate. There's richness and there's problems at the same time.
Can we overcome those things in the name of Jesus and really love each other and hear each other's stories and identify with each other, respect each other, love each other?
I hope so.
I think so.
I think that is our experience here.
I think it can grow even more.
1 John 4.10 says this is real love.
It's not that we have loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son as a sacrifice to take away our sins.
Dear friends, since God loved us that much, we surely ought to love each other.
We surely ought to love each other.
What does that kind of love in action look like?
Here's some ideas.
Just a few ideas.
It goes a lot further than this, but here's a few ideas.
You want to love somebody in this church?
Here's a challenge today.
I've said it before, I'll say it again.
Take out somebody to lunch today that you don't yet know from this church.
And establish relationship.
That's bold, huh?
I'd say I'd pay for it, but I can't afford it.
You're going to have to do this on your own.
Why don't you grab somebody you don't know?
And you know what?
Here's even bolder.
Young people, grab a grandfather or grandmother you don't know yet.
Grandmas and grandpas, fathers and mothers, grab somebody young that you don't know yet
and share your life across generations.
That's love.
The waitress will think you're their child and vice versa and say, no, we're a church.
We want to get to know each other.
That'll blow them away.
That's love.
Weep with those who weep in the congregation.
That's love.
Bless somebody from the church by taking them out to do what they love to do.
Spend time in their world.
How do you love in the family?
Here's some practical ones.
I struggle with some of these too.
Do your part in the house to keep it clean so that you won't have to be nagged by the other spouse.
Oh, boy.
Why don't you ask your children, your grandchildren, about their homework.
Come alongside.
Get into it with them.
Young fathers, this is for you.
Just a thought.
When the baby cries in the middle of the night, you get up so Mom can get some rest.
There's an idea.
Don't just roll over and pretend you didn't hear.
I pulled that stunt a couple times.
Mm-hmm.
Come on.
Dads, we can do better than that.
That's love.
Make an offer to wash the dishes, mow the grass, cook the dinner,
watch the neighbor's kids.
It goes on and on.
You get the idea.
Take your teenage daughter or granddaughter out on a date.
Just talk.
Just listen.
Get into their world.
That's how you wash the feet of each other in practical ways.
And that's just a little teaser of a list.
You can extrapolate that as God leads.
You get the idea.
But practical things.
When you do those kinds of things, you're taking the initiative.
You are, in a sense, washing somebody's feet.
You're doing the little things that bless somebody else, not because you have to, but
because you really love them and you want to serve them.
Because why?
Because your future is secure, your past is clean, you're free in the present to love.
It's a true story.
Marian Mill was born in a fairytale royal palace in the country of Hungary.
Her first spoon was literally solid gold, not a figure of speech, it actually was.
They sent her to school in Vienna where she became an actress.
And then she met and fell in love with a young medical student named Otto.
Otto and Marion married and went to live in Hollywood, California.
And there as they set up house, they began to dabble in the movies.
And Otto became interested in movies so much that he gave up his medical practice
and went on to become the internationally famed director Otto Preminger.
Marion's beauty, her wit, her irresistible charm brought her everything a woman can desire.
In Europe, New York, Hollywood, she became a famous hostess on that social scene.
But Otto's princess could not handle the fast life of Hollywood.
She went to alcohol, drugs, and numerous affairs.
Her life and her lifestyle became so sordid, even for Hollywood, that Otto Preminger finally divorced her.
She tried to take her own life three times.
unsuccessfully, and finally moved back to Vienna.
And there it was, at a party, that she met another doctor
named Albert Schweitzer. The well-known doctor,
musician, philosopher, theologian, and missionary.
And Schweitzer happened to be on home leave at the time, and he had been working
in a hospital in Lamberine, I think I'm pronouncing that right, Africa.
And she was so fascinated by Schweitzer at this party, that she asked him if she could
talked him alone. And he permitted that. He allowed her to meet. And for almost six months,
every week, she met with Dr. Albert Schweitzer. At the end of that time, he was going back
to Africa. She begged him to let her go with him. And Schweitzer surprised everyone, and
he said yes. And he agreed to take her back to Africa. And they went back, this young
princess and the doctor. Born in a palace, now she's serving in this little hospital
in Africa. And she spent the rest of her life emptying bedpans and tearing up sheets to make
bandages for the putrid sores on the bodies of these stricken people in a poverty-stricken,
impoverished land. And when she wrote her autobiography, and it was called this,
All I Want is Everything. It's a great title. In that autobiography, she wrote some profound words.
When she died, Time Magazine quoted these words from that autobiography.
Quote, Albert Schweitzer says,
There are two kinds of people.
There are the helpers and the non-helpers.
I thank God he allowed me to become a helper.
And in helping, I found everything.
Isn't that amazing?
The princess serving in the impoverished land.
And in serving, she found everything.
In giving herself away, she found the path to blessing.
Just like Jesus said.
She discovered a truth that's stranger than fiction.
When you spend your life seeking to satisfy, the result is misery.
On the other hand, if you consistently give yourself away, you gain more than you can ever imagine.
So the point is, there's a payoff in serving.
You gain when you give yourself away.
We really do.
The one who truly did that in a way that probably is the most profound
and strikes me the most is Jim Elliott.
An extreme example, but one that motivates and challenges me,
Jim was a missionary to reach the Alka Indians, South America,
and he gave his life for that cause.
And yet then his wife went back,
and she was able to bring Jesus to those people,
and the whole village came to Christ.
And he penned some words that have been real motivating to me.
He is no fool who gives up what he cannot keep to gain that which he will never lose.
That's Jesus' words, paraphrased, aren't they?
He is no fool who gives up what he cannot keep to gain that which he will never lose.
Let's hear that again in the form of a song.
