It's great to share again with you, and welcome if you are guests this morning. We're pleased that you have chosen this place to share the Lord this morning.
I want to just tell you a moment. I had a great opportunity on vacation recently to take our family to Universal Studios.
I had not been there in about a decade, and we combined it with a birthday for one of our sons and a reward for some of the excellent behavior throughout the school year in his course.
And we put all that together and spent the day at the theme park in the 89-degree sun and all of that.
Now, as you know, when you take small children through a theme park as the day wears on, they get tired.
And by the time we got down to the bottom section of the park, down that escalator that goes forever,
we were heading for Jurassic Park.
And I, Dad, am all excited.
I mean, I'm watching this flume ride and these people coming out of that flume with
the splash and the grin on their faces, and at that point, the children we were with,
our own and others, kind of had a meltdown, looked a little scary, too tired, and it was
over.
So we didn't actually ever get to ride that ride, and you don't have to give me the big
awe, it's okay.
But what I did notice was just how excited those people were as they slowed that raft
down, and their eyes were as big as saucers, wet as can be, and just giggling and excited.
They have been on an adventure.
They were thrilled.
Well, we're going to be starting an adventure, and so I want to unpack for a few moments
What is an adventure? Because we're starting this series this fall called An Adventure in Worship.
A joyful response to a loving God.
And so I want to unpack that whole title that will be the overview for this series and for the entire coming year.
An Adventure in Worship.
So what is an adventure? I saw an adventure at Universal Studios, but let's look at that.
An adventure is an exciting undertaking of some sort.
It has an element of risk. It has an element of experiencing the unusual.
It's bold, and it has an uncertain outcome.
If it were all planned out, it wouldn't be an adventure.
You don't often know where it's going to lead.
The spirit of adventure is kind of that whatever comes at you kind of experience.
I can think of no greater physical adventure than space travel.
That, to me, is just the ultimate.
To light a candle on your bottom and send you into orbit 17,000 miles an hour
and floating weightless, that is adventure.
I had a unique experience back in high school to visit a friend of my father's.
My father and he were both pilots in the Marine Corps.
My father went commercial.
This gentleman stayed in the Marine Corps and became a shuttle pilot.
And to go to his home in Houston, to sit in his living room, and to watch his home slides of space was just unreal to me.
When we show our slides of vacation, you know, here we are at Disneyland, here we are in front of the porpoises at SeaWorld, that's usually how we do it.
This gentleman, here I am floating in the shuttle deck of Atlantis or Challenger and Discovery and so forth.
Here I am looking out over South Africa.
It was just mind-blowing to see homeslides of space.
And when you spent time with him, the experience changed him forever.
In fact, here are some quotes from astronauts as they have looked back at our world.
They are changed individuals because of the adventure that they were on.
Look at what Alexei Leonov, the Russian cosmonaut,
He says the earth was small, light blue, and so touchingly alone.
Our home that must be defended like a holy relic.
The earth was absolutely round.
I believe I never knew what the word round meant until I saw the earth from space.
Changed him.
James Irwin said this,
the earth reminded us of a Christmas tree ornament
hanging in the blackness of space.
As we got further and further away,
it diminished in size,
and finally it shrank to the size of a marble,
the most beautiful marble you can imagine.
That beautiful, warm, living object
looked so fragile, so delicate,
that if you touched it with your finger,
it would crumble and fall apart.
Seeing this, he writes,
has to change a man.
It has to make a man appreciate the creation of God
and the love of God.
An astronaut looking at the earth changed him.
An adventure that is never the same again.
Finally, Edgar Mitchell said this,
my view of our planet was a glimpse of divinity.
Powerful.
It's why we sign up for adventures.
We want to experience something new
and be transformed by that experience.
Space travel might be the ultimate physical adventure,
but an adventure in worship is bound to bring even greater results
because we're not talking about just something physical.
We're dealing now with our very souls
and experiencing the living God in new ways
has got to change us from the inside out.
that is an adventure if that doesn't grow us and change us i don't know what will
to encounter the living god in fresh and wonderful ways and that's the adventure we're about to
embark on together where all this will take us quite frankly none of us really knows
but i believe it will be a good journey filled with excitement and growth i believe like that
ride when it's come to say a year from now that you will probably have a larger smile on your face
you may not be wet but you will be glowing one of our captains on this adventure is my good friend
Lowell Fairley I've asked Lowell to accompany us and lead us and help us chart this course
as we take this adventure Lowell is as you know many of you know a previous pastor here a previous
executive minister of our region and a longtime member of this church and a friend and a mentor
and a great colleague. Lowell knows worship and Lowell and I began knitting our hearts together
and talking about how we can begin to expand and grow our worship that it might ultimately glorify
the Lord and change us even more. So I've asked Lowell. He's going to do some speaking in this
series. He's going to be consulting with us, working with us. You'll see him around. He's
blessed he's all right you just let him do his thing fair enough he's one of our captains and
it's going to be a great adventure so if that's an adventure then what is worship what is worship
we're going to unpack this for the next few weeks one definition we've come across that i like
is from a book called exalt him it's actually a book called the missing jewel and it's quoted
again in exalt him by alan and borah two scholars from the old testament and they say worship
the celebration of the living God and his Christ.
It is the celebration of God, they say.
When we worship him, we celebrate him,
we extol him, we sound his praises,
we boast in him.
There's a lot in there.
Worship, ascribing God his worth.
That's where we get that word worship.
It comes from the English worth-ship.
He is worthy and we give God praise
because he's worthy to receive our praise.
Worship's about sharing with God his worth to us.
It's about telling God how much he means to us
based on his revelation to us
and our experience with him.
I like how Richard Foster put this.
A spiritual writer, he writes,
Worship is to experience reality, to touch life.
It is to know, to feel, to experience the resurrected Christ in the midst of the gathered community.
Another powerful definition, description of worship.
Worship is about lifting up the resurrected Christ
and giving Him praise for what He has done and what He still does in our lives.
and that is going to be an amazing experience
as we grow in how we do that
by giving Him praise.
Well, Psalm 100,
a biblical text for us,
gives us a view of this kind of
heart and spirit of worship
and I share this with you.
From the first few verses,
Psalm 100 says,
Shout for joy to the Lord all the earth.
It doesn't say shout for joy.
It says, shout for joy to all the earth.
Can you hear the excitement of the psalmist?
God is good, and he shouts for joy.
Worship the Lord with sadness.
No.
Worship the Lord with gladness.
Come before him with joyful songs.
Know that the Lord is God.
It is he who made us, and we are his.
We are his people, the sheep of his pasture.
We're under his care.
We're in his flock.
The God of the universe has your number, is counting you in his pasture.
What great joy that brings to know that God loves you and cares for you like a shepherd.
We are his sheep.
Shout for joy.
Worship the Lord with gladness.
And then enter his gates with thanksgiving and his courts with praise.
Give thanks to him and praise his name.
For the Lord is good and his love endures forever.
Not till next week, but forever.
That's good.
That gets inside of you.
That changes you.
He loves you forever.
His faithfulness continues through all generations.
That doesn't give us little goose pimples sometimes.
Then we're asleep.
We're sleeping the light.
Can you sense the joy and the excitement the psalmist feels?
And he expresses in that psalm.
He celebrates the Lord.
He boasts in God.
Notice again those verbs, those descriptors.
Shout, it says.
Joyful songs.
Know the Lord is God.
Thanksgiving.
Praise.
Action words full of excitement, full of joy.
Friends, this is a head and a heart adventure.
and we're going to engage them both.
We're going to meet you at your head
and meet you at your heart,
connect them together
and offer all of that as praise unto the Lord.
Ray Ortland, great pastor, says this,
Worship is the highest and noblest act
that any person can do.
I'm not sure we really believe that.
I think sometimes we think that
other things in life are more noble
and somehow we come and do our perfunctory duty
and then we get out and do the real life.
Friends, when we understand worship,
that is real life.
And if we're not convinced,
then we haven't been there truly yet.
It's the highest and noblest act
that any person can do.
When men and women worship,
God is satisfied.
And when you worship,
you are fulfilled.
Think about this.
Why did Jesus Christ come?
He came to make worshipers out of rebels.
I love that.
Before we came to Christ, we were all rebels going our own way, doing our own thing.
Jesus came to turn us wayward sheep into sheep that follow the good shepherd, rebels into worshipers.
And if we were once self-centered, we're going to have to be completely changed
so that the Spirit can shift our attention outside of ourselves and become even able to worship Him.
That's an amazing transformation, and worship is part of that journey.
as we go from rebels to sheep of his pasture.
Richard Foster again says,
If worship does not change us, it has not been worship.
To stand before the Holy One of eternity is to change.
Worship begins in holy expectancy and it ends in holy obedience.
That's my heart's cry for this series,
that as we really look at this and dive in from all the angles,
that we will come with a holy expectancy
each and every time we gather for corporate worship,
even in our private worship,
that we expect to encounter the living God.
And as we do that,
it would lead us more fully into obedience of our Lord.
That's the journey.
Expectancy, obedience.
I shared this description of worship a few years ago.
For those of you that are new,
I think you'll really enjoy it.
And for those of you who heard it, I think it captures again so well this image of how worship can change and affect us.
If you recall a number of years ago, there were some whales that were trapped under the ice in Alaska.
Does that ring a bell for some?
You may have read about this in various newspapers and magazines.
And they had gotten stuck under the ice.
And there was a small hole that they were all trying to breathe from.
and they were kind of sharing this blowhole, this place to get oxygen.
And the whales were getting bruised and battered,
sort of fighting for airspace as they gathered by the hole.
Their only hope was to be taken from that place
five miles past the ice pack to the open ocean.
And the only way they could do this was to begin cutting six-inch,
or rather breathing holes in the six-inch thick ice
every 20 yards for five miles.
And they, for eight days, coaxed these whales
from one breathing hole to the next.
And they would catch a breath, and they'd cut another hole.
And they'd catch another breath, and they'd keep cutting holes.
And for five miles, they cut and they would breathe.
Now, one of the whales disappeared under the ice.
They don't know what happened.
They trust that it perished and passed away.
But two of them, on a five-mile journey of breathing through those holes,
survived and made it to the open ocean.
It was a wonderful story, and it was actually captured by some artists.
And one of my children's favorite books at the time was this story of the whales under the ice getting free.
The reason I share that is this,
that worship can be seen in many ways
like a string of those breathing holes for us
where we come and are provided by
and receive air again from our Lord,
take it in and then go back out to serve
because we've spent time breathing in our Lord.
Worship is like coming regularly
to those breathing holes and filling up again
and offering all that we are
and all that we've been through
to the Lord in our worship.
I hope that visual captures something
and you can use that in your own thinking about worship.
You see, worship then becomes a place to affirm
who again is in control of your life.
It's not us.
It's Him.
And the regular gathering of the people of God
affirms again, He is God and we are not.
He is in control of our lives and we are not.
It's a time to give Him thanks,
to soften our hearts again to replenish from the life where things are not always so easy where we
get buffeted and bounced around by the world to come and to breathe in and be renewed and refreshed
from our lord that's part of the experience of worship at the same time god receives a blessing
as well as he meets with his people who give him praise both give and both receive in this dynamic
of worship. As I hinted at, there is both a personal and
a corporate dimension to worship. We can give God glory
and honor and praise alone in our study, alone in our
prayer closet, alone on the couch at home, and we can also
do the same in this context, together with God's people.
Private and personal, corporate, are both
expressions of worship. I love Daniel in chapter 6,
an experience where he is personally, one-on-one,
communing with God.
It says,
When Daniel learned the law had been signed,
for reference, the law that he was not allowed
to worship his God any longer,
but only the statue placed in the square,
he went home and knelt down as usual
in his upstairs room with the windows open
toward Jerusalem,
and he prayed three times a day,
just as he had always done,
giving thanks to his God.
I love that devotion of Daniel.
In the midst of challenges,
in the midst of struggle,
he goes home,
opens the windows,
and he prays like he's always done.
A man after God's heart there,
seeking the Lord in his own personal worship experience.
In the New Testament,
we see over and over experiences like this.
Acts chapter 2.
And they worship together
at the temple each day.
They met in homes for the Lord's Supper.
They shared their meals with great joy and generosity,
all the while praising God
and enjoying the goodwill of all the people.
And each day the Lord added to their group
those who were being saved.
The young church gathering together corporately,
and I think it's interesting, they met daily.
We struggle to get here once every few weeks.
They met daily.
They couldn't not have experience together with God.
And they praised the Lord.
And God blessed them and added daily to the number who were being saved.
Church, I'd sure love to see that.
I'd sure love to see people daily being saved and added to this fellowship.
Wouldn't that be an amazing goal?
To say, Lord, may you see people come and find you in our midst.
I hope you're getting a chance to see how wonderful worship is.
I hope you're getting a little bit excited to start this journey,
to step into the raft and let the waters take us,
let the Holy Spirit take us on a journey with expectancy,
with excitement, wherever it leads.
And quite frankly, Lowell and I, as we meet and pray and work through this,
we don't know exactly what it's going to look like a year from now.
That wouldn't be an adventure if we did.
We wouldn't really be relying on the Holy Spirit if we did.
That would only be our thoughts.
It would not be necessarily God's thoughts.
But we're going on an adventure, friends.
Now, why are we doing this?
Why in the world?
Well, six and a half, almost seven years ago, you took a big risk.
You hired a young pastor, didn't you?
You were either spirit-led or nuts.
Let's go with spirit-led.
And since then, we've been embarking on a number of changes in our experience here together.
The first one was just hiring a young pastor and all that that meant.
The second one, we made some opportunities for different kinds of worship experiences,
having two different services that we might just be relevant culturally to different kinds of people in the community.
That was our second wave of change.
third we renovated this entire campus facility to bring us up to date in terms of worship and
the tools for ministry fourth we implemented a whole new series of governing documents that
empower us for the flexibility that the 21st century ministry is going to require and to help
us get people and their spiritual gifts lined up for ministry that's the four waves now we embark
on this issue of worship.
Now we get beyond documents and bricks and mortar.
Now we get down to our souls.
And I trust that we all want what God wants for us.
I hope none of us say, I only want a little bit.
I hope you all come saying, God, whatever you want for me,
that's what I want.
And I believe that if we're open to worship
and to grow in worship,
that we're going to begin to take in more
of what God wants for us and from us.
And quite frankly, I think we all want to be
all that we can be for God.
And I believe, and Lowell and I together believe,
that as we embark on worship renewal,
that that'll grow us and mature us
and change us and deepen our relationship with God.
We tend sometimes to think worship is
all that nice music that precedes
the expounding of the word as if worship was the music and the preamble to the preaching
and it's easy for us to get sort of lulled into making sure we all pick the right songs and
and worrying about all the those issues and friends worship is all of this worship is our
life lived before god and so we're going to be looking at this thing as a total it is far more
than just worship or just music and certain songs and certain styles.
It transcends all of this.
And we're going to look at it all.
And may our head and our heart respond to the living God as we do.
Our worship is a joyful response to a loving God
that created you, that loves you,
and wants to receive your praise back to Him.
And I believe that when we understand this in our heads and our hearts,
When we begin to really put all this into practice, I believe it's going to profoundly change our church.
I believe it will profoundly mature us and deepen us, and I suspect even grow us as we go on this adventure of worship.
So what do you do next?
That's the question I want all of you to ask.
How do you individually now respond as we get on to this raft and begin the adventure?
I'd like for you to make these prayers
part of your regular prayer experience
as you're preparing for this series.
Number one, I'd like for you to say,
Lord, make me open to what you want to do in my life
and the life of my church.
That's a prayer of submission, isn't it?
Lord, I want you to do what you want to do.
Lord, show me where I need to grow
and let me not resist.
We can get in the way of what God wants to do
because we put it on the brakes and dig in our heels.
And we need to say, Lord, open me to trusting
and going with you on this journey.
I know for some, the idea of not knowing
where the adventure ends is unsettling.
Some of your personalities, that's just very difficult.
You like to plan, and that's a good thing.
But I've also learned that a walk with the Lord
is not always planned.
And so I pray that we'd be open
to letting the Lord lead us as he goes.
Lord, forgive me for my obstinance at times
and my refusal to grow with you
as you want to shape my soul.
Lord, change my heart
that I might more deeply touch your heart.
And Lord, may you bless our church
as we grow in worship together.
As we grow in worship together.
As the astronauts see things differently
and are changed by their journey,
May we be transformed by this upcoming adventure.
And so all I can say in conclusion is this.
Buckle up.
Hold on tight.
And here we go on an adventure in worship.
Let's pray.
Lord God, we're strapping in, Lord.
We want to go where you want to go because it's all about you.
So make us ready.
Put us through the right training that we need to jump in and go and trust you.
And Lord, I do pray, and Lowell and others and leaders,
we are praying that you are going to just have your way
in some profound ways with us
as we grow in our understanding of who you are
and how we might joyfully and with full excitement
give back glory and praise to you.
How we might meditate on you more effectively
and focus in on you and give you praise.
How we might fill our lives with even more joy,
even in the midst of the tough times in life.
may we still live in a hopeful expectancy
that you are with us
that you walk beside us
and that you want us to give you love
and praise and glory
so Lord I pray that you would come
and through your spirit prepare us
for the things that you have for us
for the teaching
for the modeling
for the experiences to come
and Lord may the end of this series
may the end of our year
may the end of next year
may you grow us as a church
and mature us
and may anybody that ever comes
within the walls
or within the context
of experiencing your people here
may they know
that this church
knows and worships
the living and the loving God.
So here we are Lord, we're ready.
Lead us and take us as you please
and be glorified in the journey.
We pray these things
in the authority and the power
and by the blood of Jesus, amen.
