It's great to be with you again this morning. Let me commend you. Some churches don't know how to worship when the pastor's gone, and when you take away the whole pastoral staff, things just fall apart, and God's been the focus this morning, and that's the way it should be all the time, and I'm grateful to be with you.
I am the executive director at Thousand Pines Christian Camp and Conference Center, your
American Baptist camp up in Crestline, California, and I'm just thrilled to be with you.
I have a little bit of PR work to do, but not too much.
I want to focus on the word today.
We have board members in your church that I am grateful for.
Bruce Steele, Ron Stevens, Dave Estridge are all members of the Thousand Pines board.
George Mattis was a member of the Thousand Pines board,
and we now claim him as our missionary to Europe.
I mean, I know you do as well, but that's okay.
We'll share him.
And I know the Fullerton youth will be at Thousand Pines next week,
so I hope that you'll be praying for them all week
because it isn't just what we do on the mountaintop
that makes a difference in their lives.
It's the sense of expectation that they bring with them
and the sense of expectation that leads you to the throne of grace
to pray for them that changes lives a thousand pines, and that's what we're all about.
In your bulletin, I believe you got an insert this morning. It's about a great special event
that we have happening in your backyard. I'm going to take First Baptist Fullerton attendance
on that day to see how many of you are with us. I want to tell you quite frankly that in this year,
and I'm with GW, I'm sorry, our president. I'm with the president. The economy is going to
turn around this year. But without this event last year, we would not only be in the situation
at Thousand Pines where I have had to clean a few restrooms and wash a few dishes recently,
but we would have had young people not be able to go to camp because we wouldn't have had
scholarship funds for them. And yet last year, God gave us a great event, a lot of money was raised,
and virtually every dime we raised was used for scholarships.
We expect the same to be true even in an improving economy
and we hope that you'll support this worthy cause when you come together.
Last thing I want to warn you about is your sermon notes.
First of all, they are for a sermon that I'm not preaching today.
And that's nobody's fault but mine and Bruce Steele's.
When I found out what kind of technological support that you had,
everything spelled right?
Yeah, okay.
technological support you had here for the message today. I decided to do what I really
wanted to do, and so I'm going to share with you a message entitled, One at a Time. We're in Matthew
chapter 22, and I want to ask you a few more questions. I should have you take the scorecard
out of the pew rack in front of you, but there isn't one there. But in your mind, take out your
scorecard, and you can go 1 to 10, or you can go A through F, or you can do whatever you want, but
Let's find out how you're doing. Let's take a test today. Are you walking the talk? Are you
living the way you say you believe? Are you being a wise parent? Okay, one to ten. Are you being a
faithful friend? Are you being a devoted church member? Are you an honest employee? Are you a
witness in your workplace, on your campus, in your neighborhood? Are you a caring neighbor?
Should I stop now?
I don't like to take tests.
Do you like to take tests?
Did you pass the test, though?
You know, when I start taking inventory of my own life
in this pressurized and complicated world,
I sometimes get caught in a vice
between the commands of a holy and perfect God
and my own aggressive self-analysis.
And quite frankly, life gets even more complicated then,
and it can get painful.
Raise your hand if you like pain.
All right, I didn't think so.
And so what happens when we aggressively self-analyze
and we experience that pain,
we're inclined, frankly, to stop analyzing our lives at all.
And we drift, and we coast, and we can stop dead.
And that's when I need to look to Jesus.
In Matthew chapter 22, we read these words.
Jesus has just passed the test of the Sadducees,
And here we read,
Hearing that Jesus had silenced the Sadducees, the Pharisees got together.
There's always somebody who wants to test you.
And one of them, an expert in the law, tested him with this question,
Teacher, which is the greatest commandment in the law?
And Jesus replied,
Love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your mind,
excuse me, with all your soul, and with all your mind.
This is the first and greatest commandment.
And the second is like it.
Love your neighbor as yourself.
All the law and the prophets, the whole Old Testament,
hangs on these two commandments.
Look how simple the Savior makes life.
Love God.
Love your neighbor.
Period.
That sums up all that God wants from you.
And yet we make life so complicated.
We look at life as that proverbial elephant.
And how do you eat an elephant?
You eat an elephant one bite at a time.
But we make life complicated.
And if the Bible didn't make it complicated enough for us,
because we don't read it clearly,
we forget verses like this,
reminders of a loving God that says simply,
wait a second, there's a lot in here,
and there's a lot in the world around you,
but life is simple.
Love God.
Love your neighbor.
One day at a time.
One relationship at a time.
Keep it simple.
One act of obedience at a time.
Walking the talk.
One foot in front of the other.
One relationship after another.
One decision after another.
And that's how we get it done for God.
And that's how we experience the abundance and the joy that God wants us to have.
I want you to turn with me to John chapter 4, if you have your Bibles.
If not, you'll get it from me and from the screen above.
It's a great passage that shows us how Jesus changed lives.
He did it one life at a time.
Beginning with verse 1.
The Pharisees heard that Jesus was gaining and baptizing more disciples than John,
although in fact it was not Jesus who baptized, but his disciples.
When the Lord learned of this, he left Judea and went back once more to Galilee.
Now, I want to stop right there and point out one very important thing.
God wants you to live one day at a time.
He wants you to keep life simple.
He does not want you to live life alone.
In fact, one of the best ways to keep life simple is to have a few people in your life
who will surround you and remind you to keep life simple
and just ask you the question, are you loving God?
Do you love people?
Is love your motivation?
is God, the Lord of your life.
Don't try to live it alone,
or you're in for trouble.
Verse 4 says that Jesus had to go through Samaria
to get to Galilee.
Well, I don't want to quibble with God's word,
but I think John means something different
than that Jesus had to go through Samaria,
because you know what?
Jesus didn't have to go through Samaria.
That was the straightest route to Galilee.
From Jerusalem to Galilee,
you go through Samaria
if you want to get there quickly, but the fact is that geographically it wasn't absolutely
necessary, and culturally it was not the norm. It would be normal for Jews or Samaritans to avoid
one another at every opportunity. They had deep cultural and religious divisions, animosity
toward one another, and most Jews, if they wanted to go from Jerusalem to Galilee, would have gone
around Samaria to get there.
Somehow, John feels compelled to write
that Jesus had to go through Samaria,
and I think it's pretty simple to understand why.
Jesus kept his route simple
because he simply could not exclude anyone
from the love of God.
If God tells you to go from point A to point B,
don't make it more complicated than it needs to be.
Obey.
and what he puts in your path and who he puts in your path
will be part of his plan.
As Jesus moves through Samaria, we come to verse 7.
A Samaritan woman came to the well where Jesus was to draw water.
And Jesus said to her, Will you give me a drink?
His disciples had gone into town to buy food.
The Samaritan woman said to him, You are a Jew and I am a Samaritan woman.
How can you ask me for a drink?
For Jews do not associate with Samaritans.
Now, I'll give you a tip.
This is one of the best-known witnessing passages in the New Testament.
But I want you to notice something.
There is nothing right about the planning here.
Jesus obviously did not put together a flowchart on this
and how to best witness that day
because he was in the wrong place at the wrong time with the wrong woman.
Jesus is a Jew, and this woman is a Samaritan.
They have nothing to do with each other.
They avoid each other like the plague.
Jesus is a man.
She is a woman.
Men and women did not associate in that way, that intimately.
Jesus was the Holy Son of God.
And she was an immoral woman.
We know that because she's there in the heat of the day
to draw water when all of the women of the village would have been out in the cool of the morning
together to draw water. And as Jesus encounters this woman in the cultural context of that day,
these people should have had nothing to do with each other. But Jesus keeps it simple. You love
God, you love people, whoever God puts in your path. And so even to the point where Jesus allows
himself to be served by a woman, a Samaritan woman, an immoral Samaritan woman. He actually
humbles himself to need something from her. He asks the woman for a drink. And note that she's
the one who objects. How can you ask me for a drink? She knows the score. She knows that she
got all ones and no tens. And Jesus gets right to the point. Now, he begins a dialogue in which
Jesus tells her about the gift of God that only he can give. Begins in verse 10. Jesus answered
her, if you knew the gift of God and who it is that asks you for a drink, you would have asked
him and he would have given you living water. Sir, the woman said, you've got nothing to draw
with and the well is deep where can you get this living water are you greater than our father jacob
who gave us the well and drank from himself as did also his sons and his flocks and his herds and
they go on in this dialogue this woman doesn't want to talk about the living water i'm not sure
at the beginning whether she really even understands what jesus is talking about
She wants to talk about everything from hydrology to the history of wells.
She wants to talk about religion and culture and ancestors.
She wants to talk about everything but what really the subject is.
She says to Jesus, give me water so that I won't have to come back to this well in the heat of the day anymore.
Now, at least to some degree, she realizes now Jesus has something she doesn't have.
I'm still not sure she fully grasps what's going on.
And Jesus responds to her,
go get your husband and bring him back.
Now, that seems to me like he changed the subject.
Okay?
This is what my wife says I do to her when we're talking.
Don't change the subject.
I don't think I did.
Well, he didn't change the subject.
She just didn't know what the subject was.
And at that point,
Jesus is going to get down to the point
at which she has to deal with the obstacle, or at least one of the obstacles,
that has kept her from ever receiving the eternally satisfying love of God.
But I want you to note something else that's important for us.
He is also giving her the opportunity to sneak away into town and not come back.
That doesn't seem like a profound theological statement, but I think it's pretty important.
Jesus was not depending on his pressure
and keeping her there, buttonholed, pigeonholed,
to respond to his offer.
In order to put his finger on the point,
on the obstacle that's keeping her from God's love,
he is willing to let her get away.
Sometimes people come under extreme conviction
before they get right with God.
And God uses all kinds of ways to wake people up.
It can be a soft whisper, the serenity of creation, of nature.
Or it can be the exposure of life-threatening circumstances.
It can be just a subtle sense of thirst, or it can be a near drowning.
But nobody ever came to Christ because another person forced them.
And so Jesus keeps it simple.
It's up to her to open her heart to God
if she's going to experience the love of God.
Now, if we approached our witness,
our sharing of the love of God that way,
wouldn't that just take some tension
out of the fear we have of witnessing?
Now, if you're normal,
it's okay to be normal
and feel afraid about witnessing,
because let's be honest, we do.
We fear rejection.
We fear humiliation.
We fear all kinds of things.
We fear that we'll get confused and lose our way,
forget what we even believe,
even though we know in our hearts in whom we've placed our faith.
That would take a lot of tension out of witnessing
if we knew that the Holy Spirit was the evangelist
and that he would work in people's hearts to make them open.
So in the ensuing verses, she wants to talk about religion.
She wants to talk about the right location for worship.
But Jesus still keeps it simple.
In verse 23, he says these words,
Yet a time is coming and now has come when true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth,
for they are the kind of worshipers the Father seeks.
God is seeking a relationship with people.
And so he offers her a love relationship with God.
Not a lot of theology, not a lot of history, not a lot of lectures,
but the love of God in relationship.
Soon his disciples return.
They've gone out to McDonald's of Samaria or wherever to get food,
and they bring it back, and they're concerned that Jesus hasn't eaten,
and he must be hungry.
And Jesus is there with the woman, and the disciples are surprised
because they know the rules, and they ought not to be together.
And the woman returned to town.
And the disciples were concerned that Jesus must be hungry,
and Jesus responded to their concern with these words.
In verses 32 through 34,
He said to them,
I have food to eat that you know nothing about.
And then His disciples said to each other,
Could someone have brought Him food?
My food, said Jesus,
is to do the will of Him who sent me and to finish His work.
Jesus never forgot his simple, sustaining purpose.
And that was to do God's bidding with his life.
Period.
Do you know your simple, sustaining purpose?
What it is that keeps you moving forward in the right direction
to simply love God and love people in his name,
to simply do his bidding with your life,
all the rest, the food, the cars, the Galilee, the theological gymnastics,
even for Jesus saving the whole world,
there will all be time for that if you just live life one day at a time.
Love one person at a time.
Walk the talk one step at a time.
And anything else just becomes an obstacle.
An obstacle to life, to joy, to loving God with your whole heart
and loving your neighbor as yourself.
We make it too complicated.
The obstacles must be removed.
I represent a ministry at Thousand Pines which is all about removing obstacles.
Let me tell you right now, what goes on at that mountaintop,
for those of you who haven't been there, is not an act of coercion.
It is an act of sharing.
We just try to remove every obstacle to people understanding how much God loves them.
And so we minimize the distractions and we maximize the beauty of nature.
And we keep it simple.
Our sustaining purpose is to change lives and renew the church
through a ministry of adventure and Christian hospitality.
It's simple.
And what I want to share with you for the next few minutes
is one simple, purposeful weekend
that took place just about a year ago today.
It's the same kind of experience
that young people are having
this weekend at Thousand Pines
and that the kids from First Baptist Fullerton
will be having next weekend
at Thousand Pines.
We just do it one camp at a time.
I just wanted to learn more about God
and I just wanted to go to my college.
I'm reminded of forgiveness that I need.
Who is this care that broke me?
Who offers it to me?
I was falling away from God.
I'm falling away from Christ.
Who is this care that breaks me?
It's inspired by how God's just totally working with us.
I mean, there's totally, and people are on fire for God.
You know, it's not something that's fake.
It's something that they just put their hearts into,
and everybody's just so kind to each other,
and it totally shows God's love through this camp.
Last night we just kind of started out, if you were in there,
just a little bit of humor and kind of a crazy story
and just barely getting into the word.
But if you know my heart, I just want to base what we're talking about around this book.
I don't want it to be human opinion.
I don't want it to be human wisdom.
And we're going to jump this morning into John 4.
And today's is going to be kind of a two-parter for the junior hires.
We're talking about the time bomb of temptation.
I think that they stress the point, you know, they're just not all laid back about how important it is to devote your earning to ask God into your heart and stuff like that.
It's always different. It's not the same thing. It always changes, but it's basically the same point to get to.
Jesus is the main goal. That's the truth in life.
Guys, I've come back from the edge of death a couple of times now in the last three years.
I won't drag you through the whole thing
But what I've discovered is
I don't soft soap it anymore
So have the kids put in their retainers
As they come in
And just pray that
Pray that we'll go right through the gentle hearts
Right through the hard hearts
And that my lips will belong to Christ
For the duration of that time
That's it
It comes with grace by which we're
I was so honored to be with God.
Every time I get on this, it helps me spiritually.
Oh, it's snowing. Wow, look at that.
I'm so excited.
Almost non-existent.
Me and my wife just took over our youth group.
A couple of months ago, we've gone through a lot of youth leaders, having a real hard time getting it together, and this weekend is exactly what we needed to really come together as a group and really bond and unite. It was great.
then you really don't have the time of day to listen to this wild-haired guy fill you in.
In two years, I was like, you know what, blow it out here.
Okay, so, I'll take the 22 years with Christ any day.
Over the 22 years, I thought I was having such a good time.
One of the things that they've been talking about,
like, it seems like they're talking, like, straight to me.
Kind of like the seclusion, like, not being really close to anything,
like, and having so many good speakers.
And I want to start just digging in to this whole area of temptation and giving you some ammunition so that we can walk out of this camp, we can be changed people, we can say, I know about the spiritual battle. I've got some new ways to think about it. I've got some ammunition. And the next time Satan comes along and he tries to tear me down and foul me up in the area of temptation, I know not where I stand.
I feel the Spirit of God is here always and you can just come here and it's fun to worship and it's fun to fellowship and everything.
Over two years ago, during the summer, I came out here, and we had these cards that we filled out.
And I put, I wanted to re-educate my life to Jesus Christ and talk the talk and walk the walk.
And ever since that day, I started with the devotions, how we would do devotions, daily devotions.
I started reading the Bible every day, like a chapter a day.
And I've been continuing that every day. I haven't missed one day
That means I walk up to the key chapel and just pray for them and read more to that kid, probably than any other thing to do.
Just take it on the side and go buy them a soda or something and just find out how they're doing.
I think for me it's the life-changing experience.
Every time I come up here, something new, something that really changes my life, makes me a different person when I come back down.
I rededicate my life.
Like yesterday, I rededicated my life.
And today, as we were singing one of the songs, I found that I could understand everything
Milton said, so that was kind of cool.
I realize about others perhaps more meaningfully than I can down the hill, and when I'm up
here with a group of people, we always go down the hill united in Christ when we came
up as a bunch of individuals.
And it's a feeling that I don't think I can get anywhere else.
Bow with me in prayer
Father in our God
we thank you
for the tool
that Thousand Pines is
for this church
and so many other churches
to simply reach out
with the love of God
we pray Lord God
for the ministry
of this church
that we might simply
in the family of this church
fall in love with God in such a way
as to simply want to love Him more
and to love people in His name.
And we pray for ourselves as individuals.
Individuals who sometimes just fill our lives
with complications when all you really want us to do
is look you in the eye
and come face to face with your loving heart
and love You and obey You
and love people in Your name.
Lord, speak to us even now
as we respond to Your love.
For we pray it in Jesus' name.
Amen.
We have a closing song.
It's Lord, be glorified.
And as we sing that song together,
