And I love that song. That's like Christmas tradition to me, to hear the Bowringers sing that song. Amen.
Well, good morning. Merry Christmas. Almost. How you doing? I'm alright. Did you get your stuff packages bought and all that?
I better finish that today. Before we get into all of the seasonal things, I want to enter into this story for a minute.
I want to take you back to 1754 for a minute.
A gentleman by the name of Horace Walpole, there's a name,
was reading a Persian fairy tale called The Three Princes of Serendip.
I just love that.
And the story touched him because here's what it was about.
It's about three kings that were looking for treasure.
and in their journeys they didn't find anything that they were looking for but they were from
an island called ceylon which originally was called serendip and these guys went searching
for treasure but they found other treasures along the way and so the gentleman who read that story
this guy horace was so impressed by their by what they did and what they learned in the process that
He coined the term serendipity.
And what it means is to find treasures when you least expect them.
That's where the word comes from.
Serendipity occurs when something beautiful breaks into the normal routine of our lives
and there's joy and vitality.
Something is broken in.
And friends, that's what Christmas really is.
It's serendipity.
The birth of Jesus was totally unexpected in its timing.
totally unexpected in its location, totally unexpected
in its mode. Life was pretty normal for
first century times and then God breaks through and serendipity occurs.
Normal routine involving yet a
bewildered groom, a tender hearted teenager
and the spirit of God and serendipity occurs.
For a few moments I want us to leave our hectic schedules. I want you to
ignore the Braille Mall. I want you to forget about packages, boxes, or bags and all that stuff
right out of the Grinch. I want you to forget about plans and parents and grandparents are coming
and all that stuff. And for a few moments, enter this story and see what God speaks to you about.
Luke chapter 1. In the sixth month of Elizabeth's pregnancy, God sent the angel Gabriel to Nazareth,
a village in Galilee, to a virgin named Mary.
She was engaged to be married to a man named Joseph,
a descendant of King David.
And Gabriel appeared to her and said,
Greetings, favored woman. The Lord is with you.
Confused and disturbed,
Mary tried to think what the angel could mean.
Don't be frightened, Mary, the angel told her,
for God has decided to bless you.
You will become pregnant and have a son,
and you are to name him Jesus.
And he will be very great and will be called the Son of the Most High.
And the Lord God will give him the throne of his ancestor David.
And he will reign over Israel forever.
His kingdom will never end.
And Mary asked the angel, but how can I have a baby?
I'm a virgin.
The angel replied, the Holy Spirit will come upon you and will be holy and will be called,
sorry rather, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you
so the baby born to you will be holy and will be called the Son of God.
What's more, your relative Elizabeth has become pregnant in her old age.
People used to say she was barren, but she's already in her sixth month,
for nothing is impossible with God.
And Mary responded, I am the Lord's servant,
and I am willing to accept whatever He wants.
May everything you've said come true.
And the angel left.
We learn a few things about God.
from this. I'd like for you to enter into this. And the first thing we see is this issue
of meekness, which is controlled strength. When you think of God, it is easy to think
really big and to conjure up images of power and grandeur and timeless majesty, and that
is totally appropriate and right. In fact, when scientists are now peering into the telescopes
in the heavens and looking through Hubble, they are discovering the universe is the most
beautiful, complex, and mysterious thing imaginable.
If you've seen the new image or issue of Wired Magazine,
there's a whole discussion about theology
and science. And Wired Magazine has an article saying, you know,
the more scientists look at the heavens, the more and more are
coming to be convinced there's a God that started it all.
When you look at the universe and its height and its breadth and its depth
and complexity and aesthetic beauty.
We're humbled by the power of the creator of that universe.
And God is powerful and all-creative.
He is all of that.
And yet His Son, Jesus, God come in the flesh,
also is incredibly meek.
Now take a look at Philippians chapter 2.
Therefore God exalted Him, Jesus, to the highest place
and gave Him the name that is above every name,
that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow
and on heaven and on earth and under the earth
and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord
for the glory of God the Father.
Amen. That's truth.
Now look at it this way.
Here is the ruler of the universe, his son Jesus,
the holder of all authority on earth and heaven,
yet he's born in a stable and placed in a feeding trough.
Here's the twist. He's also very humble.
Because a few verses before that, look what it says.
Who being very nature God, did not consider equality with God something to be grasped,
but made himself nothing, taking the very nature of a servant,
being made in human likeness, and being found in appearance as a man.
He humbled himself and became obedient to death, even death on a cross.
The second person of the Trinity is born into the most humble of circumstances,
friends to identify with us to even the least in the world's estimation god understands
a stable for crying out loud and let's be honest nazareth where the announcement took place
a small town in the region of galilee the popular thinking was this nothing good comes out
of nazareth and galilee these are backwater regions this is not the place where kings come
from? If you saw the wedding of Charles and Diana years ago,
now that was regal. That's king and queen kind of
stuff. If I had designed the arrival of the king, this is what I would have done.
There'd be a palace. There'd be a high-tech delivery
room with all the machines that go ping. There'd be fireworks, pyrotechnics,
intelligent lighting, doing all that stuff. I would
have had gold and marble and Siegfried and Roy, Disney and
halftime producers would be jealous of what i'd put together but in god's humility he comes in
the back door an angel visits an overwhelmed young woman in a berth in a stable and a feeding trough
for bed and that was it that's how the king comes god may be god of the universe but he is no
elitist he connects with all of us even the lowest of us and so whatever your circumstances today
Whether you're coming full of joy or full of angst or pain or struggle or whatever it is, God can relate.
You see, God, through Jesus Christ, knows what it's like to live on earth,
to feel hunger and loneliness and pain.
He knows what it's like to feel temptation, to experience joy,
to feel frustration or to bask in contentment.
He knows all those things from having lived a human life on earth, in Galilee, in Nazareth, for crying out loud.
He knows the smallest details of your life.
He knows.
He's been there.
And that's our humble God.
Connects with us at the very details of our lives.
He's also a miracle worker.
Because an angel shows up and basically says, if I can paraphrase,
surprise you're going to have a baby and not only a baby but you're going to name him jesus and he's
going to be called the son of the most high and all of this is going to happen without you mary
ever having been with a man surprise how would you have felt if you heard that i think there's
some fear that goes along with that yeah you think so i think the presence of an angel would
be mind-bending enough let alone what he's saying would you doubt do you doubt now do you doubt
god's miracle power today do you doubt this narrative is even true i mean kirk it's just a
fairy tale we all know that science knows that right we all know this is just made up stuff to
make us feel good and so forth that that's the popular thought here's why i think that's wrong
for one thing there's no record in the pagan religions around the time of any
kind of virginal birth story you see was common if you're writing to make up
something to grab something from the culture and throw it in your story so
your audience can relate to that oh we know this part oh yeah we know that
general theme doesn't exist now Isaiah 714 existed in Scripture but they didn't
read it as a miracle birth story. There's
nothing in the ancient world that would have given rise to this
kind of story. Not to mention, number two, that Luke
is an early physician. He's a scientist of his day. He's cool.
He's objective. When he writes something, he believes it to be
true. His whole style of writing, his whole way of approaching the story
is to just take the details of the events and let the chips fall wherever
they go. That was Luke's style. Not to mention that the rest
of Jesus' life validates this miraculous beginning
because he did miracles. If he can do miracles, why can't
he be born of a miracle? It makes more sense, actually. If Jesus'
birth announcement is a miracle, then Jesus can be
also a miracle. The text says the most holy
will come upon you and the power of the Spirit will overshadow you. That image
is also the same image of the Holy Spirit descending upon the waters of creation
and there's something happening, being created. Creation happens
again. It's a miracle. And what's more, Mary's
relative, Elizabeth, is also pregnant and she's a barren woman
six months along. There's all kinds of weird, miraculous
stuff breaking into this time of serendipity happening.
Nothing is impossible with God.
Do you doubt God's power today?
Are you sitting there saying, you know, I'm not really sure.
Let me give you some things.
Nothing is impossible with God.
God has healed many of you physically over the years.
Nothing impossible with God.
God has miraculously met your needs when you had nowhere else to turn.
Some of you, you shared the stories with me.
You were down to the last penny.
You had no idea what was going to happen, and you prayed,
and God met the need out of nowhere.
God does that stuff.
is God of miracles. Some of you had moments when you were put
in a situation, you needed God's wisdom, you needed God's truth, you needed to know
how to explain who He was to somebody, and God put the verse or the
idea or the thought in your head supernaturally, and you came and shared
the story. Nothing impossible with God. God has changed
your lives, renewed you, and made you more and more like His Son, Jesus.
Nothing impossible with God. You were dead in your sins, and now you're alive
in Christ, nothing impossible with God. You used to live
only for self. Some of you have testimonies that are so powerful, how you lived
only for yourself, and now you can't live without Jesus Christ.
That is a miracle, given the hardness of your heart. You've told me those stories.
Nothing impossible with God. You once feared death,
the great equalizer, and now you're confident in Christ.
There's nothing impossible with God. God is still in the business
of entering our lives in profound and miraculous ways
to help shepherd and engage His children.
Do you believe that?
I do.
And the story of Christmas tells us that over and over again.
God breaks in when we don't expect it
and provides miracles in our midst.
And finally, number three,
we see God moving in mystery.
Because despite our scrutiny of this text
and looking at it from every angle,
we cannot escape the overarching reality that it's a mystery how all of this happens.
You see, you can't sit down and ultimately figure out God.
You can't put it on paper.
I've tried.
I have thousands of pages of books to try and get my mind around these ideas.
I've tried to logic the whole thing out.
And you know what?
There's really good reasons for faith, really good arguments for faith,
but deep down at the core of it, there's still a mystery.
Because things happen that we can't fully explain or understand.
But friends, we're only four-dimensional creatures in an 11-dimensional universe.
What do we expect?
What happened between God and Mary is ultimately a mystery.
Why did he pick her?
I don't know.
Why does he pick us?
At different times, I don't know.
How did God perform the miracle?
How does he work in our lives?
Sometimes it's beyond us.
And, you know, my style of thinking is I want explanations.
I want reasons, I want to understand this, but there are mysteries to life, and we have
to engage them as mysteries.
When I was in high school, I worked in a magic shop for a while.
Love sleight of hand and all that.
I used to love getting behind the counter just to mess with all the tricks, just to
see how it was done.
And I still go to magic shops, especially when I'm at Disneyland or something, I'll
walk into that one in the corner, and I'll basically have them do a trick like, hey,
show me the latest and greatest, you know, do one.
and if I'm really blown away, I'll buy it just to see how it was done.
I don't really have time to practice, and I've lost some of my skills,
but I just want to know.
Here's 15 bucks.
Let me know how you did that.
I want to know how this stuff goes down.
But I've also come to realize that the things that bring ultimate meaning to our lives
are truly unexplainable,
that things like that are always beyond the safe, settled reaches of the predictable.
And the man who said that was Calvin Miller, and I agree with him.
That there are mysteries that give our life meaning that are beyond completely understanding in our rational mind.
And I'm becoming okay with that.
Because mystery is still in the heart of faith.
And I want us to enter this story with a rational thought, but also with an element of mystery.
I want the miracle of Jesus' birth not just to be interesting, but let it tingle your spine.
Let God's coming to earth as a human being take your breath away.
That is a miracle.
Let the mystery of Jesus' birth and life and death and resurrection
give you hope in the inner recesses of your soul.
When God comes a-knocking at your door,
I want you to submit to the mysteries of God and to say something like this,
I am the Lord's servant, and I am willing to accept whatever He wants.
May everything you've said come true, Mary.
Because I've also seen this.
When the most ordinary people say, Lord, may you have your way, great things happen.
When ordinary people say, Lord, do what you will, we'll follow you, churches are born.
When ordinary people say, Lord, I'm your servant, I'm willing to accept whatever may be, ministries grow.
When ordinary people say, Lord, may it be according to your will,
hospitals are born and rise.
Christian universities take off.
Visions get implanted and people stretch and do amazing and miraculous things
through the power of God.
Some of the greatest missionaries were born when a timid believer said,
I am the Lord's servant.
Will you say the same?
Do you embrace the mystery of God this holiday season?
Do you embrace the mystery of God in every season?
See, our God is a God of serendipities, of doing new things.
Often at times we least expect Him, and He breaks forth and does something amazing.
He's a God of meekness, of miracles, and mystery.
And I want to ask, will you worship Him?
Will you follow Him?
Will you embrace Him and His plan for you?
And what I really want this season is not to be obsessed with the trappings and the packaging of the season.
I want you to be obsessed with the baby and the risen Lord.
And I have avoided the mall this far, thank God.
But I found out I've forgotten one gift.
So I still have to enter into the chaos of this week.
And some of you do too.
And I don't want that to somehow crowd the mystery of our God.
And I'm going to encourage you as we sing another song here,
and just if you can get away quietly and read this text again,
and let the truth and the reality of this story enter your soul
in a way you've never allowed it to happen.
Because our God is meek and identifies with our world.
And He does miracles in our life and can do them in yours.
And He's awesome.
And He's mysterious.
and that appeals to a part of our soul.
It's beyond explainable, but it's very good.
And I want you to enter in and say, Lord, thank you.
I'll worship you, and I'll follow you,
and I'll be all about what you want me to be about.
And so I want you to embrace the miracle of Christmas
from a new angle this year,
and may your worship be full and fruitful
and blessed and wonderful.
So with that, let me pray for you.
Our Father, I thank you for this wonderful group of people
that you brought from a variety of places this morning
to think about and to experience the story once again.
And I pray that your spirit would speak truth
and would prick our hearts and our consciences
and make it real and alive for us.
Pierce our doubts.
Help us, Lord, to embrace the truth
and yet to hold it loosely because it is mysterious.
It's beyond us.
But help us, Father, to engage who you are,
why you came, and what it's all about.
Father, I pray this congregation would have a wonderful Christmas experience
and enjoy the mysteries of the season.
So fill them, Father, with your love and your truth and your passion,
and may they have a blessed celebration.
In Jesus' name, amen.
We're going to sing Isn't He?
Beautiful, wonderful, counselor, mighty God.
I invite you to stand.
