Good morning, today, and especially to celebrate communion with you and to enjoy the Lord's Supper with you.
It was during a children's service that the pastor gave the instruction that said,
Now, when I say a word, kids, I want you to say the first word that comes into your mind.
And so he said the word frog, and the little boy said Jesus.
And the puzzled pastor said, Why in the world did you say Jesus?
when I said frog, and the boy said, well, Coz, I know you didn't call us up here to talk about
frogs. Well, forgive my honesty, but in many churches, the subject of frogs comes up just
about as frequently as the subject of finances, and some of you may be getting a little uptight
because you've heard Pastor Kirk preach three of the last four Sundays on the subject of money.
it seems interesting to me that we're interested in money in every other part of our lives but
don't want it to come up in a spiritual context Jesus does not allow that option he says that
where our money is there our hearts will be also every now and then McDonald's does one of these
promotions. Several years ago, they did one based on the popular board game Monopoly, and with each
purchase, you were given game pieces that would yield certain prizes, and while some individual
game pieces were instant winners, and instant winners meant usually that you got a Coke or a
pack of french fries, or maybe a hamburger. However, there were three instant game winner
pieces that promised, if found, to pay off a million dollars each. The odds of finding
one of those pieces was 260 million to one. But on the Monday following Thanksgiving,
during the promotion a plain white envelope arrived at St. Jude Children's Research Hospital
in Memphis. It was postmarked Dallas, Texas and was mailed on the day after Thanksgiving
with no return address. All that was in the envelope was an instant winning one million
dollar game piece. Two days later, McDonald's paid the million dollar prize to St. Jude.
Now to this day, neither McDonald's nor St. Jude has any clue about the identity of the mystery
donor. In fact, McDonald's is not sure whether that winning piece was from one of the newspaper
inserts that it put in newspapers across the country or whether it was actually found in one
of their stores. Let me ask you this, did one of you do that? Were you in Dallas for Thanksgiving
weekend and did you discover that you had the possession of a million dollar winning game piece
and did you give it anonymously to Children's Research Hospital in Memphis, Tennessee?
Are you the mystery donor? If not this time, are you likely to be the next mystery donor who makes
an overwhelming generous contribution like that? How would we deal with that? Most of us
have entertained fantasies of winning the lottery. Of course, Baptists don't play the lottery,
but publishers clearing house or readers digest sweepstakes. Have you ever thought about what
you might do if you had a winning ticket like that? Would you give it all away before anyone
else even knew about it. Most of us, frankly, don't think that way. We'd consider giving some
of it away perhaps, but we'd also probably keep most of it for ourselves and think about the cars
we could buy and the houses we could buy and the trips we could take and the good things we could
lavish upon ourselves. Some might even wonder if a person who does that is really even thinking
clearly. David Letterman is famous for his top 10 list. A while back, he had a list of the top 10
ways to know you're not thinking clearly, and the list included the following. He said, if you wear
your glasses while you're looking for them, you're not thinking clearly. If you've just discovered
your AM radio works in the afternoon, you're not thinking clearly. If you think Taco Bell is the
name of a Mexican phone company, you're not thinking clearly. If you sell your car for gas
money, you're not thinking clearly. Well, Jesus would add to that, if you sell your soul for
earthly possessions, you're not thinking clearly. True Christianity recognizes and celebrates
what Arneal sang about this morning, God's generosity. First Chronicles chapter 29. Let me
read this to you. I think it's on the board in front of you. David praised the Lord in the presence
of the whole assembly, saying, Praise be to you, O Lord, God of our father Israel, from everlasting
to everlasting. Yours, O Lord, is the greatness and the power and the glory and the majesty and
the splendor, for everything in heaven and earth is yours. Yours, O Lord, is the kingdom. You are
exalted as head over all. Wealth and honor come from you. You are the ruler of all things. In your
hands are strength and power to exalt and give strength to all. Now, our God, we give you thanks
and praise your glorious name. But who am I and who are my people that we should give as generously
as this. Everything comes from you, and we have given you only what comes from your hand.
I don't know about you, but sometimes I think I'm on more mailing lists than anybody else.
Every day, I get several requests for financial support. Every day, I get offers that, you know,
I can make save hundreds of thousands of dollars and make lots of money if I do this the phone
rings constantly offering me incredible opportunities and my email is loaded with sure
fire financial investment winners everybody wants money and there's an obvious aversion to
high-pressure tactics and emotional manipulation, and God has nothing to do with those kinds of
approaches. And in this campaign, we've certainly not used any of those. Today, I want to look
simply at what the Bible says about giving. Throw away all the techniques and the Madison Avenue
sales pitch, what does the Bible say about giving? It's a fact of life that the essence of Christianity
is giving. The Bible says God is a giver. The best known verse in the Bible is what? John 3, 16.
For God so loved the world that he did what? He gave his only begotten son. And when God asks us
to give, he only wants us to do, what he wants us to do is to become like him. God is a giver.
he's given to us he wishes us to be givers God himself is our example and time fails to share
this morning of of the multiple verses having to do with God's generosity let me just run
through a few of them James 1 5 says God gives generously to all Matthew 7 11 how much more
will your heavenly father give good gifts to those who ask him James 1 17 whatever is good
and perfect comes to us from God above. Acts 17, 24 and 25, he is the God who made the world and
everything in it. Since he is the Lord of heaven and earth, he doesn't live in man-made temples
and human hands can't serve his needs for he has no needs. He himself gives life and breath to
everything and he satisfies every need there is. For God so loved the world that he gave his one
and only Son. Romans 6, 23, the gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. Second
Corinthians 8, 9, for you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet
for your sakes he became poor, that you through his poverty might become rich. On that last verse,
Chuck Swindoll makes this comment. He says, the verse of scripture doesn't say, for you know the
obligation of the Lord Jesus Christ. Or you know the requirement or the sacrifice. No, he mentions
only the grace. When our Lord left heaven, he didn't leave gritting his teeth and clenching his
fist and shouting, okay, okay. It wasn't obligation. It was grace that motivated him. It was grace
within him that brought him to Bethlehem as a little baby. It was grace within him that allowed
his, so that he allowed his hands and feet to be pierced with nails, and grace within him that
said, Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they do. The word used for grace is often
translated gift God demonstrates his gifts again and again throughout the Bible but nowhere is his
overwhelming generosity more evident than in offering up his son for us for salvation and
redemption his grace is multiplied in measureless fashion as he cares and watches over us
Annie Johnson Flint wrote the words that were put to song
that are really one of my favorites.
She said,
He giveth more grace when the burdens grow greater.
He sendeth more strength when the labors increase.
To added affliction, he addeth his mercy.
To multiplied trials, his multiplied peace.
His love has no limit.
His grace has no measure.
His power has no boundary known unto men.
For out of his infinite riches in Jesus, he giveth and giveth and giveth again.
When we have exhausted our store of endurance,
when our strength has failed or the day is half done,
when we reach the end of our hoarded resources our father's full giving has only begun
his love has no limit his grace has no measure his power has no boundary known unto man for out
of his infinite riches in jesus he giveth and giveth and giveth again so what does this have
to do with the capital stewardship program. God wants us to give because he wants us to become
more like him. God is a giver. He's given to us. He wants us to learn to be givers. There are over
1,500 scriptures in the Bible that deal with the idea of giving. Christianity is the essence of
giving. And when we examine the biblical teaching, we discover that God is far more interested
in the motive of our giving than in the amount. He's more interested in why we give than how much
we give. He's more concerned with the quality of the giver than the quantity of the gift.
Pardon me. In Acts 20, 35, Paul quotes a saying of Jesus that's not found in the Gospels.
Where Jesus himself said there is more happiness or more blessing in giving than in receiving.
Giving is not something that's just tacked on to the Christian life.
It's the essence of Christian living.
Jesus said give and it will be given to you for with the measure you use it will be measured back to you.
The message puts it this way.
Give away your life, you'll find life given back, but not merely given back, given back with bonus
and blessing. Giving, not getting, is the way. Generosity begets generosity. So let me just
mention in the remaining moments, I have several benefits of becoming a generous person. Giving
will make me more like God. God is a giver. We've already looked at that passage. God so loved the
world that he gave. Everything you have is a gift from God. You can give without loving, but you
cannot love without giving. To be like God, you've got to become a giver. I fell head over heels in
love a number of years ago. Young lady, I saw her. It was love at first sight for me. It took her a
little longer. I was a sophomore in college, and she was a freshman, and I saw her on one of those
opening night rallies that we had at our Bible school, and now many, many years later, I'm
more deeply in love with her than I was the day we said our vows. One thing has never changed. I love
to give gifts to Nelda, and I'm fortunate because she's a tremendously generous person, and she loves
to give to me as much as I love giving to her. You just really can't love without giving, and so
1 Chronicles 29 14 says, everything we have has come from you, Lord, and we can only give you
what is yours already. But every time we are generous, we become more like our heavenly
father. Secondly, giving draws me closer to God. The Bible says where your treasure is,
there your heart will be also. Jesus said that. Let me ask you, where's your heart?
It's wherever your treasure is, wherever you put your money. If your money is in your investment,
then you grab the financial pages and you're checking that out every day
to see exactly what's happening because that's where your heart is.
If your money's in your house, that's where your heart is.
If your money's in a boat or a career or a hobby or anything else,
that's where your heart is.
Jesus said that money's like a magnet.
Wherever we put it, it tends to pull our hearts.
If I give money to God, it's like a magnet.
it tends to pull me closer to God.
Matthew 5, 48 in the message says,
grow up, you're kingdom subjects.
Now live like it.
Live out your God-created identity.
Live generously and graciously towards others
the way God lives toward you.
You know, the fact is God doesn't need my money.
God doesn't need your money.
He owns it all.
what he wants is what my money represents my money really represents my heart and every time
i give it draws me closer to god it's like spiritual aerobics it's good for the heart and
enlarges your heart it makes it stronger if you're a parent i i sure i'm sure you enjoy
watching your children be generous it's a thrill to see the children get to the age where it's not
just about getting at Christmas time but they are so thrilled about that present that they've made
for mom or for brother or sister and we love to see that generosity and when God sees you giving
and sharing and being generous with what he's given you in the first place he says I'm proud
of you I you're doing what I told you to do you're growing you're not only being drawn closer to me
you're growing more like me every day. Giving pleases God because it is an act of worship,
and God is far more interested in raising disciples than he is in raising dollars.
Thirdly, giving is a victory over materialism. The media and Madison Avenue continually seek to
sell us the lie that happiness can be purchased. Charles Swindoll says in living on the ragged
edge, the itch for things is a virus draining our souls of happy contentment. Have you noticed a
man never earns enough? A woman is never beautiful enough. Clothes are never fashionable enough.
Cars are never nice enough. Gadgets are never modern enough. Houses are never furnished enough.
food is never fancied enough, relationships are never romantic enough, life is never full
enough. I knew we'd really touch the lady's heart when she testified in a capital stewardship
campaign that she was going to put off buying any new clothes for three years. She was a lovely lady,
very, very nicely dressed, and you knew just by looking at her that clothes meant a lot to her,
And she said, this is what God has put on my heart.
Happiness is never found in possessions.
If that were true, obviously the people with the most would be the happiest people in the world.
And we know that's not true.
You make a living by what you get, but you make a life by what you give.
And giving is the antidote to materialism.
It breaks the grip of materialism.
Oswald Chambers said, sit loose to things, own them, enjoy them, expect them, and welcome them
when they come, but still sit loose to them. That way, if they go, they do not carry us with them.
Things are to own and people are to love rather than things to love and people to own.
sit loose to things he doesn't say we can't have them god may bless you and you may be blessed with
material blessings that that are truly the blessing of god and we praise god for that
we're not saying all that needs to be given away we are only saying that we should be generous as
god is generous look at first timothy 6 17 and 18 it says command those who are rich in this present
world not to be arrogant, nor to put their hope in wealth, which is so uncertain, but to put their
hope in God who richly provides us with everything for our enjoyment. Circle enjoyment. God wants you
to enjoy what you have, but he says command them to be generous and willing to share. In this way
they will take hold of the life that is truly life you make a life by giving God taught his
ancient people the purpose of tithing is to teach you always to put God first in your lives
I'm not talking about tithing this morning but that was what God said way back in Deuteronomy
and that's why Satan hates giving so much and that's why he works to make us selfish
and then giving strengthens my faith ultimately i have to decide as you do can god be trusted
with my finances can he be counted on to keep his promises i've told you uh many times that
there are more promises in the bible about giving than any other subject god says if you do this
then I will do that. 2 Corinthians 9, 13 says your giving proves the reality of your faith.
There's only one place in the Bible where we are told to put God to the test, and it relates to
our giving, where in Malachi chapter 3, he says, bring the whole tithe into the storehouse. Test me
in this, says the Lord Almighty, and see if I will not open the floodgates of heaven and pour out so
much blessing that you will not have enough room for it. That's the only place in the Bible where
God puts out that kind of a challenge. The Bible is filled with promises for God's people,
but there are more promises regarding giving than any other subject in the Bible.
And with every promise, there's a premise. God says, you give, and I'll give to you.
Now, we tend to say sometimes, okay, Lord, if you bless me, then I'll give. God says,
no, you prime the pump. You first. Why? Because that requires faith. Giving tests my faith and
strengthens it. Proverbs 3 9 says, honor the Lord by giving him the first part of all your income
and he will fill your barns to overflowing. Your faith is strengthened when you trust the promises
of God. And so we celebrate God's generosity. Max Lucado tells the story of a generous man.
Let me share it with you. He says, an old man walks down a Florida beach. The sun sets like
an orange ball on the horizon. The waves slap the sand. The smell of salt water stings the air.
the beach is vacant no sun to entice the sunbathers not enough light for the fishermen
so aside from a few joggers and strollers the gentleman is alone he carries a bucket in his
bony hand a bucket of shrimp it's not for him it's not for the fish it's for the seagulls
he walks to an isolated pier cast in gold by the setting sun he steps out to the end of the pier
the time has come for a weekly ritual.
He stands and waits, and soon the sky becomes a mass of dancing dots.
The evening silence gives way to the screeching of birds.
They fill the sky and then cover the moorings.
They are on a pilgrimage to meet the old man.
For half an hour or so, the bushy-browed, shoulder-bent gentleman
will stand on the pier, surrounded by the birds of the sea,
until his bucket is empty. But even after the food is gone, his friends still linger. They linger
as if they're attracted to more than just food. They perch on his hat. They walk on the pier.
They all share a moment together. The old man on the pier couldn't go a week without saying,
thank you. His name is Eddie Rickenbacker, and if you were alive in October 1942,
you probably remember that he was reported as missing at sea. Sent on a mission to deliver
a message to General Douglas MacArthur, he set off across the South Pacific with a hand-picked crew
in a flying fortress, the old B-17.
Somewhere, the crew became lost.
The fuel ran out, and the plane went down.
All eight crew members escaped into the life rafts.
They battled the weather, the water, the sharks, and the sun,
but most of all, they battled hunger.
After eight days, their rations were gone.
They ran out of options.
It would take a miracle for them to survive.
and a miracle occurred.
After an afternoon devotional service,
the men said a prayer and tried to rest.
As Rickenbacker was dozing with his hat over his eyes,
something landed on his head.
He would later say that he knew it was a seagull.
He didn't know how he knew, he just knew,
and that gull meant food if he could just catch it, and he did.
the flesh was eaten the intestines were used as fish bait and the crew survived the question was
what was a seagull doing hundreds of miles from land only god knows whatever the reason
rickenbacker was thankful and as a result every friday evening this old captain as long as he
was alive, walked to the pier, his bucket full of shrimp and his heart full of thanks. And then
Lakedo says, whatever, he says, we'd be wise to do the same. We're, we've much in common with
Rickenbacker. We too were saved by a sacrificial visitor. We too were rescued by one who journeyed
far from only God knows where. And we, like the captain, have every reason to look into the sky
and worship. Life is a gift. And everything that makes life worthwhile is a gift. And we were
rescued by a miracle from God. That's why we have reason to look to the sky every day. That's why
We have reason to give thanks to God every day and worship every day.
And when we remember God's generosity, perhaps we will be inspired to give out of the blessings we've received from what has been given to us.
And when we give, we pass on to others and keep alive the goodness and the grace of God that we did not earn or deserve.
we pass on his blessings that others might be blessed also and when we give like that
we celebrate the generosity of god may god bless you thanks for allowing me to share
i hope that you will be at our all church banquet tonight and the children sixth grade and younger
will be at the children's party we look forward to seeing you tonight and seeing what god
will continue to do at First Baptist Church of Fullerton.
