We had a great time. I live to tell about it. Praise God.
And I got more points than last year. I still lost, but at least I scored.
So, I mean, that was good. Yay.
And I want to thank Mario and the team for putting on a phenomenal second annual tournament.
That was awesome.
And I want to thank Paul Delgado as well.
Paul was kind of our emcee, master of ceremonies for the event.
He shared a nice, quick gospel message at the very beginning and prayed for the event
and just did a great job of kind of making everybody feel welcome
and cared for and encouraged.
So thank you, Paul, for your hard work there.
Thank you.
And again, if you are new to our church family,
we have a wonderful karate ministry that has now got its own tournament
and may go international someday.
We send actually karate students around the world sometimes,
and they come back with buckets of trophies and medals,
and we're proud of them.
And if you want to be a part of this thing, it's free.
Okay?
You can't get free karate anywhere in this community.
Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, beginning class is at 6.30.
The advanced class and team is at 7.30.
You just come on out.
I don't care if you have a little white outfit or not.
We'll get you all that stuff.
If you want to work out, though, and just tone up, come on out.
You'll have a great time.
And then you get to take on your pastor someday.
So you can do that.
It was great.
Thank you all for being a part of that.
Well, listen, let's start off here, and John, professional golfer, we go from karate to golf, both things I like, also not good at, but like it, and this gentleman, Paul Azinger, how many know who he is?
Ever heard of him? A few golfer fans out there? Okay, well, this guy was diagnosed with cancer at 33 years old. That'll rock your world, wouldn't it?
He had just won a PGA championship, had 10 tournament victories to his credit,
and he wrote this about that experience.
He said, a genuine feeling of fear came over me.
He wrote, I could die from cancer.
And then another reality hit me even harder.
I'm going to die eventually anyway, whether from cancer or for something else.
It's just a question of when.
Well, that freaked him out.
And he said, everything I had accomplished in golf suddenly became meaningless.
All I wanted to do, he says, was live.
And then he remembered something that Larry Moody, who teaches the Bible study on the tour, had said this.
He said, Zinger, we're not in the land of the living going to the land of the dying.
He said, we're in the land of the dying trying to get to the land of the living.
And that really changed his worldview.
Well, this guy, Paul Azinger, he recovered from the cancer through chemotherapy, returned to the tour.
He did well, but that bout with cancer changed his life.
And he wrote this.
I've made a lot of money since I've been on the tour, and I've won a lot of tournaments,
but that happiness is always temporary.
The only way you will ever have true contentment is a personal, personal relationship with Jesus Christ.
I'm not saying that nothing ever bothers me and I don't have problems,
but I feel like I found the answer to the six-foot hole.
There's a man who had it all, but then he realized he didn't have it all.
He had no peace.
He had no ultimate purpose until he met Jesus.
And once he really met Jesus and followed Jesus,
it changed his life and his outlook and his perspective
and his whole world was radically changed.
In our second installment in this study in the book of John, we're going to look at Jesus'
dialogue with somebody else who really had it all
or so he thought. I want you to turn with me in your Bibles if you've got them or take a look
at the screen to John chapter 3 starting in verse 1.
It goes like this.
leader named Nicodemus, a Pharisee, came to speak with
Jesus. Teacher, he said, we all know that God has sent you
to teach us. Your miraculous signs are proof enough that God
is with you. And Jesus replied, I assure you
unless you are born again, you can never see the kingdom of God.
What do you mean? exclaimed Nicodemus. How can an old man go back
to his mother's womb and be born again? The truth is
no one can enter the kingdom of God without being born of water and the Spirit.
Humans can reproduce only human life,
but the Holy Spirit gives new life from heaven.
So don't be surprised at my statement that you must be born again,
just as you can hear the wind but can't tell where it comes from or where it's going,
so you can't explain how people are born of the Spirit.
What do you mean, Nicodemus responded?
You are a well-respected Jewish teacher, and you don't understand these things?
I assure you I'm telling you what we know and have seen, and yet you won't believe us.
But if you don't even believe me when I tell you about things that happen here on earth,
how can you possibly believe if I tell you what's going on in heaven?
For only I, the Son of Man, have come to earth, and will return to heaven again.
And as Moses lifted up the bronze snake on a pole in the wilderness,
so I, the Son of Man, must be lifted up on a pole,
so that everyone who believes in me will have eternal life.
For God so loved the world that he gave his only Son
so that everyone who believes in him will not perish but have eternal life.
God did not send his Son into the world to condemn it but to save it.
There is no judgment awaiting those who trust him,
but those who do not trust him have already been judged for not believing in the Son of God.
Their judgment is based on this fact.
The light from heaven came into the world, but they loved the darkness more than the light.
Their actions were evil.
They hate the light because they want to sin in the darkness.
They stay away from the light for fear their sins will be exposed and they will be punished.
But those who do what is right come to the light gladly so everyone can see what they are doing, what God wants.
I want us to enter that story.
For some of you, that's a very famous story.
You may have heard that a lot of times.
For some of you, this is perhaps the first time.
And I want us to, wherever we are in terms of interacting with it,
to come to a place where we enter this story this morning.
I want you to feel the darkness.
I want you to smell the dark, cool air as it surrounds these characters.
And I want you to see the man approaching Jesus from out of the night.
I want you to put yourself right to the side of Jesus and Nicodemus
because you're going to listen in on this very insightful conversation.
Nicodemus, this religious leader, a rabbi, a teacher of the law,
he had his act together.
He believed the right things.
He stayed away from the wrong things.
He was a squeaky clean kind of guy.
No fault here.
And this religious leader, Nicodemus, comes to Jesus at night.
This is the real Nick at night.
Comes at night.
That was bad, I know.
But you were listening.
I got you here, right?
Nicodemus, why does he come at dark?
Why does he come at night?
Why does he come under cloak of darkness?
Perhaps he's afraid of being seen.
I mean, after all, Jesus has performed a miracle at a wedding.
and kind of opened up that he's got supernatural power.
He's just destroyed the temple in the chapter before.
This man, how do we say this?
This man is subversive.
This man, Jesus, is not safe for the religious establishment.
And if you're going to hang out with this guy,
you might be in trouble if you're part of the powers that be.
I don't think Nicodemus wants to be associated with him in the daylight.
He comes at night.
And if you can just picture this scene where Jesus is on a stage, if you will,
and it's totally dark except one cone of light coming down on Jesus.
And Nicodemus is hovering around just outside of the light.
And he comes in to talk to Jesus.
Now, theologian to theologian, they begin to talk.
Teacher, we all know that God has sent you to teach us.
Your miraculous signs, the wedding at Cana, your disturbing the temple, your miracles,
We think these are proof that God is with you.
We will buy that.
But see, Jesus is not interested in talking about signs.
Jesus is interested in the hearts of men and women and their connection with God.
And Jesus says this.
Jesus speaks in riddles.
Sometimes when we hear things plainly, we don't hear it, do we?
Sometimes when your friend will talk to you or your spouse or your boyfriend or girlfriend,
and they'll be sort of veiled.
They'll hold back something or speak in humor or in riddles or puns.
It perks your ears up.
It makes you draw in to, what are you saying?
Jesus says, unless you're born again, you can never see the kingdom of God.
Friends, I want to say this.
Sometimes we've heard this gospel story so many times that we're not listening anymore.
We don't hear it either.
And wherever you are this morning in your spiritual journey, I want you to really hear this.
Really open your eyes and your ears.
Unless you're born again, you can never see the kingdom of God.
Well, Nicodemus is hooked.
You can almost see the furrows in his face beginning to scrunch up
and the frown starting to drop on his face.
You can't climb back into the womb.
What are you saying, Jesus?
That's ridiculous.
It's wacko.
But he's hooked.
Jesus says the truth is no one can enter the kingdom of God
without being born of water and the Spirit.
What is Jesus saying?
What is he really saying?
He's speaking to a man.
Speaking to a man who knows the Hebrew Scriptures.
And Jesus is pointing back to Scriptures like this.
From Ezekiel, listen.
God says, I will sprinkle you with water
and you will be clean.
I will cleanse you from all your impurities
and from all your idols.
I will give you a new heart
and put a new spirit in you
and I will remove your heart of stone
and give you a heart of flesh
and I will put my spirit in you
and move you to follow my decrees
and be careful to keep my laws.
Jesus is saying that a new age has dawned,
that God is doing a new thing.
God is working through John the Baptist
and Jesus is now baptizing in the Spirit.
The Spirit of God is now moving with humanity.
And God's Spirit is changing people now from the inside out, from the inside out.
To be close to God is to have God's Spirit dwell within you and transform you into a new person.
The Bible says a new creation, a new creature, that new person that delights to do what God is all about
and to be about God's business.
But all of that is lost on Nicodemus.
He's a rabbi. He's a teacher.
He's supposed to know the mysteries of God.
And as he's standing there in the darkness talking to Jesus, who is the light,
he doesn't get it. He's not able to see it.
And so Jesus says,
For God so loved the world that he gave his only Son,
so that everyone who believes in him will not perish but have eternal life.
God did not send his Son into the world to condemn it,
But to save it, that, friends, is the whole story in that sentence.
That's the whole story of this whole book summed up in those sentences.
It's the whole church.
It's the whole story.
It's known as the good news that God gave his son that no one should perish but should have eternal life.
The good news is this, that God loves you more than you can ever believe or know.
And that he sent his own son Jesus, not to condemn you,
but to deliver you from your own selfishness and your own soul sickness,
that you might be in relationship with God now and forever.
That's the good news.
That's it.
It's the greatest news you'll ever hear, that God loves you and wants to be with you forever
and wants to impact your life and be in your life now and forever.
When you really hear that, when you really hear that message, it cuts to your heart.
Friends, are you listening today?
Are you really listening?
Are you too settled in your beliefs and your religion to really hear this again?
I want you to hear this.
I want you to hear it from a different translation.
This is how much God loved the world.
He gave His Son, His one and only Son.
And this is why, so that no one need be destroyed.
By believing in him, anyone can have a whole and lasting life.
God didn't go to all the trouble of sending his son merely to point an accusing finger,
telling the world how bad it was.
He came to help.
He came to put the world right again.
Nicodemus heard the words of Jesus, but he didn't really listen.
Nicodemus had all the head knowledge about God.
He knew the scriptures.
He knew the mechanics of the religion.
He could do it in his sleep.
But that's what he was towards God.
He was still asleep.
You see, you can know an awful lot about God and still miss the heart of God.
For many, the greatest distance you're ever going to travel is the 18 inches between your head and your heart.
That's a long journey for many people.
That's been a long journey for me at times.
You can know an awful lot, but if it doesn't get down to your heart, it doesn't become real.
You don't step out on only what you know in your head.
You step out what you know in your heart.
In biblical language, the heart is the seat of the passions and the volition and the stepping out.
And the following Jesus comes from the heart, not just the head.
Nicodemus heard it in his head, but his life was not penetrated by Jesus Christ.
We see Nicodemus asking questions.
We'll see him later in John in various places trying to step out, but he doesn't really do it.
And like an actor on the stage, the light fades on Nicodemus.
He doesn't go all the way.
You see, a disciple is a person that confesses Jesus' identity as the Son of God.
A disciple is a person who remains faithful in the journey with Jesus.
A disciple tells others about Jesus, and we don't see any of that in Nicodemus.
How about you?
Do you have the knowledge about Jesus, but you've not yet really believed in your heart
and stepped out to follow him?
Do you confess him as your leader and forgiven?
Do you stick close by him?
Do you tell others about him?
Those are the traits of a disciple.
Is that you?
or are you just going through the motions?
What Jesus is getting at is this.
That humanity is broken down beyond all repair.
God is not interested in merely fixing us.
He's interested in rebuilding us from the inside out.
It's not about shaving off rough edges
and just kind of trying to tweak you a little bit.
This is major reconstructive surgery from the inside out.
Make you a new creature, a new creation.
The old has passed, the new has come, says Paul.
True religion, friends, is not just about ethical behavior.
That's a part of it.
But it's not just about doing the right things or having the right knowledge.
I'm concerned that in the church we've talked a lot about knowing your Bibles.
You have to be and live the truth of the Scriptures.
And that comes from grabbing onto Jesus and having Him transform your life
and to really go with Him.
Then the head knowledge becomes heart knowledge.
True religion is not about following a code of rules precisely.
That's a trap.
Jesus is saying to us that true religion is not about finding God within you
and fanning it into flame and becoming divine, because we're not.
If you get honest, you know we're not.
The only way that God comes into you is when you invite him through his Holy Spirit
to take up residence.
You are not God.
You invite him, though, to dwell in you.
That's the Christian story.
True religion is not just something on the vertical or rather on the horizontal plane.
It's vertical.
It starts there.
It starts by being born from above.
It's not something that we do.
It's something you open yourself up to as God does in you.
Will you open yourself up to let God do it in you?
Will you say, yes, I'll follow.
Now begin to do your work in me and I'll follow you in that work that you're doing.
The Bible says, I'm going to remove the heart of stone
and give you a heart of flesh.
That's what it's about.
I'm going to summarize it this way.
Jesus is saying these things.
Number one, all people live in darkness.
When we get brutally honest with ourselves,
we realize that we live in darkness and we like darkness.
But when you get tired of going your own way
and living with the consequences of the destructive behaviors in our lives
and our selfishness and our inward focus
and our obsession on all the wrong things
and our addictions and our habits
and all the things that bring us down
and drag us into the pit.
When you're tired of those things
and you say, I want a new start,
Jesus promises a new start.
And believers, number two,
are willing to open their lives to God's scrutiny,
are open to coming into the light,
which is Jesus.
And then we believe what Jesus did for us on the cross
Let's take all of our sinfulness and nail it away.
And after you come to light, we can live a new life
and be empowered by the Holy Spirit
and live a life of gratitude that comes from God saving us.
But you know my concern is there's millions of religious people
that sit in church week after week going through the motions
and they've got the knowledge and the rituals
and they've missed the relationship.
And it can happen here, it can happen in every church, in the community, and around the world.
We go through the motions.
We don't have the relationship.
And so I just want to ask, Fullerton, are you ready to step into the light?
And if you have not really stepped into the light and allowed God's Spirit to take up residence and to dwell
and to really have His way in your life, I'm going to give you a chance to do that today.
And some of you are sitting back and you are dying a thousand deaths because you know this is true.
and it's not my words, the Holy Spirit
beginning to talk to you
and you're thinking, what are they going to say?
I've been here for years.
I'm supposed to know it all.
It doesn't matter.
If you need to get some things right with the Lord
as we give this service to conclusion,
I'm going to invite you in a few minutes to come
and to get some things settled with the Lord
because 2003 is a year that we don't know
what's going to happen.
We don't know from day to day
if we're going to be here tomorrow
And I'm not here to scare you and to say that, you know, nukes are going to come from Korea.
I don't know what's going to happen.
But friends, these are dangerous times.
And it's not a time to play religion.
It is not a time to impress people by faking it.
It's time to get real.
And if you're not being real with God, don't leave today without getting real with Him.
And I'm not going to judge you.
We're not going to judge you.
We're just going to love you and pray for you.
Are you ready to step into the light?
Are you ready to put aside religion and have a relationship with the God who loves you?
Are you ready to be born from above or known as born again by God's Spirit?
As you're thinking and praying and dealing with God, I want you to hear the words to this song.
And then we'll talk again in a minute.
