Isn't that beautiful? Brandon Steele did that. Our young men and women who are discovering their gifts in technical ministry, and what a blessing that is to have somebody 14 years old building our slides, and I'm just encouraged by that.
A little housekeeping before we start this morning. A, it's good to be back with you. I really did miss you.
People say things like that, like, it's good to be back, miss you, and so forth. They don't really mean it. I mean it. I really miss my church family.
And it really is good to be back.
Enjoyed my time away, but I'm glad to be back as well.
B, we're really serious about technological ministry in this church.
That's the vehicle for communication today is audiovisual.
And we need people of all ages, men and women, to help us in learning how to run this stuff
and create and tweak knobs and bring the volumes up and bring the lights down and all those things.
If you have any inkling of interest, please let us know.
Because we need a real team of people to put all this together.
And it's more than just a couple people.
We need a whole force.
And the more the merrier, and the more that can do it, you don't have to do it as much.
And so if you're at all interested in technical ministry in any way, you let us know.
On a communication card or note, give it to me.
Call the office.
We're recruiting like mad.
The guys are waving their fists.
They're so happy I'm saying this.
It's a family issue.
Come be a part of our technical ministry.
We'd love to have you.
And finally, last issue, more housekeeping.
We're at the point now where we're getting so busy around here during the week
that if you think you usually use a room and it's going to be no big deal
and we'll just grab 201 or 301 or whatever, you know what?
we've discovered you probably can't because somebody else probably already has it and we're
getting so busy we're bumping into each other and that's a great problem to have that's called
growing pains praise the lord churches have growing pains or shrinking pains these are the
growing pains here's how it works ken lee is now our property manager and is in charge of scheduling
Every group, everybody on this campus.
And so if you want to use a room for a ministry, a Bible study, a group that's going to meet, whatever it is,
an event you have planned, you need to come to the office, fill out some paperwork,
and let us know what, when, and how, and Ken will get back to you and put it on the master calendar.
And he'll let you know what room and so forth.
I've been saying yes to people, oh yeah, go ahead and do this, do that, and I'm in big trouble.
So don't listen to me.
I might get all excited for you.
But if Ken doesn't say yes, it's a no-go.
Is that fair enough?
All right.
That's housekeeping.
Good problems to have.
I'm encouraged by that.
And now let's discover prayer.
The disciples said to Jesus, Lord, teach us to pray.
That's a profound statement.
You know why?
Because if the disciples who spent three years with Jesus still said, Lord, teach us to pray,
it probably is something that we're going to all need to learn how to do.
If the disciples spent three years watching and learning from being there,
2,000 years later, we're going to need some help in learning how to pray.
And so our goal here is that as Christians, that our prayer life would be as natural as breathing.
Natural as breathing.
And I am proud to say that our church has been strong in this area of prayer ministry.
To give you some examples, we have a prayer force ministry that meets before every service
and prays for what God is going to do in this place.
We pray for me, we pray for the choir and the band.
We pray for you and your hearts, that you might receive what God would have for you.
In Prayer Force, we train on a quarterly basis, rather, and learn how to pray better and more effectively.
And if you're interested in learning how to pray, we welcome you to our Prayer Force ministry.
We have something new coming up this fall that you may have seen up here.
We're IPTs, Intercessory Prayer Teams.
We're forming teams to pray on different nights of the week on our facility
for the needs of people and the issues in the community.
If you're interested in being a part of that, you let us know as well.
And sign up and see Gloria Esperas and Norma Morrow.
And say, I want to be part of a team that prays for an hour a week for the issues of life.
And the fun thing is, friends, if you need prayer,
you can come to one of those meetings and just say,
I need some prayer, would you pray for me?
And they'll put a hand on your shoulder and they'll pray for you.
That is an exciting extension of prayer as we grow in this area of prayer.
We're going to be updating our prayer chain in coming weeks
to be more effective and fill it in with more people.
We've been a strong church in prayer.
and we must continue to be a strong church in prayer.
I believe a praying body of believers is a powerful church of believers.
With prayer, the Bible says, much can be accomplished.
I've shared this with you.
It says in James 5, 16,
the earnest prayer of a righteous person has great power and wonderful results.
Do we believe that this morning, fellow Christians?
do we believe it? In fact, if you read that text in James, it goes on to talk about Elijah
and how he prayed that rain would cease from the earth, and it did. And then later he prayed it
would be restored, and the rains fell. With prayer, much can be accomplished. But I think
there are lots of misperceptions today about prayer and what it is. Some think that prayer
is kind of like a magic wand.
It's something you wave over something
and expect to get results
or perhaps it's that vending machine approach to God.
If I type in the right formula and insert my coin,
out comes what I want.
A distorted view of prayer.
Some see prayer as a kind of bargaining with God.
Again, a distortion.
Some think of it as like a life ring
that you throw to a drowning person.
It's used, perhaps, as a last resort.
The foxhole prayer, if you will.
Things are really coming down,
and, oh God, please hear me.
But the rest of life, you never talk to him again.
But I think the most tragic one,
the most tragic misperception of prayer,
is that somehow prayer is a duty
that's dry and motivated by guilt.
And to me, that's the saddest misperception of prayer.
I want to dispel these misperceptions in the coming three weeks.
As we get into our fall season, I want us to be really ready and amped up as we pray together.
And so Jesus, as he's talking to his disciples in the middle of the book of John, in chapter 15,
as he's telling them about how he's going to leave and will send the Holy Spirit,
He encourages them and teaches them about prayer.
And so, first of all, he says, of the four definitions of prayer I want to share this morning,
the first one is prayer is depending on God.
Prayer is depending on God.
You see, I believe that prayer is an opportunity to tell God how much you love Him,
how much you're committed to him
how much you are dependent on him
and that last one friends is hard in our American culture isn't it
our American culture is okay at some levels with the idea that
that our nation is founded on biblical principles and truths
but for us to really acknowledge that our very life is dependent on God
that our very breath is dependent
on God is hard for us because we're a nation of do-it-yourselfers. We're a nation of rugged,
independent, frontier kind of people. And for us to acknowledge that every day is a gift of God,
that every breath is dependent on God, can be hard for us. But friends, we really do need help.
We really can't do everything on our own.
And we have to be honest about that.
Prayer is difficult, and for many, because they have to get honest first.
You see, in prayer, if you're going to depend on God, you have to be honest
and realize that you're inadequate in some things, that you're helpless,
that you need help in various situations in life.
And if you think you're self-sufficient, prayer will have no meaning for you.
In fact, through prayer we acknowledge that we're depending on God.
Jesus said in John 15, he says,
Yes, I am the vine, you are the branches.
Those who remain in me and I in them will produce much fruit.
For apart from me you can do nothing.
Anyone who parts from me is thrown away like a useless branch and withers.
Such branches are gathered into a pile to be burned.
But if you stay joined to me and my words remain in you,
you may ask any request you like and it will be granted.
My true disciples produce much fruit.
This brings great glory to my Father.
Wow.
It's almost like a blank check, isn't it?
If we stay in the Lord and are abiding with Him and staying connected with Him,
then what we pray for is going to be granted.
But it's all about dependence, isn't it?
Because abiding is about staying close in an intimate connection with the Lord.
And if a Christian cuts himself off from God, he or she withers and dies.
It's been said that discipleship is, I like this description,
it's a way of thinking, which is really doctrine.
It's a way of living, which is ethics.
And it's a supernatural experience that cannot be compared with anything else in the world.
That's a great definition for us.
And I think prayer is deeply wrapped up in what it means to live as a disciple of Jesus Christ.
It's our support system.
If you cut it off, you run out of spiritual air.
You wither and you die.
As many of you know, my parents gave our family a gracious gift
and brought us to the beautiful little island of Maui for the past 10 days or so.
And it was a great opportunity to spend time with them and to relax,
and we had a wonderful time.
I've been saying to many of you, how was our trip?
I'd say, well, you know, a bad day on Maui is still better than a great day in L.A., isn't it?
So we had a wonderful time.
Lots of reading, lots of relaxing.
But of course, when you get to an island like that,
as soon as you get off the airplane,
you're bombarded with all kinds of literature
on all the fun things to do.
Here's your discount coupons for everything under the sun.
And as a sucker for that stuff, I grab a whole bunch of that stuff
and I throw it in the rental car
and I'm flipping through the daily specials of the week.
And if you rent this, you can sail over here
and go up in the air and do all this stuff.
I don't do any of it.
but it's interesting to look at. Submarines you can get, all kinds of crazy stuff. And one of the
things I noticed in the picture was something for tourists, somewhere between snorkeling and scuba
diving. Snorkeling, you stay on the top. Scuba diving, you got to get licensed. So they figured
out how to kind of do an in-between. It's called snuba. And snuba diving is halfway. You're
snorkeling, you've got the regulator, but you're attached to a hose to the ship. So you're not
really going down by yourself, but you're getting a few feet under so you can get closer to the
beautiful fish and all that's there for you. Snuba, I didn't try it, but it looked interesting.
And as I thought about it, in snuba diving, that lifeline is literally your airline is your
lifeline. You are connected, baby, to that ship for life and everything else. It's like prayer,
isn't it? It's the lifeline for our lives. Everything channels through that little tube.
That lifeline of prayer is our spiritual lifeblood, friends. And we must, I'm going to go
way out here, but you got a snuba for the Lord, all right? That's a real stretch, I know. But you're
never going to forget it. But you've got to remember that prayer is the lifeline for our
spirits with God. Prayer is depending on God. Lord, teach us to pray. Number two, prayer
is communicating with God. Communication is so important in our lives, isn't it? If you
realize that most of the problem in our lives is actually some kind of form of a miscommunication,
isn't it? Communication is so intricate to who we are as human beings. And many problems
come from poor communication. Here's an extreme example. Many of you remember this and actually
lived through this. The Cuban Missile Crisis. Remember this? Now I had to watch a movie
to get this, but I've heard about it and I know it's important. Here's what I recall
happened. Missiles come into Cuba, square off between the United States and Khrushchev.
You remember this.
And when it was all over and they finally turned the missiles back, they set up the hotline, didn't they?
They set up the red phone from President Kennedy's desk to President Khrushchev's desk.
And since then, the superpowers could communicate instantly when anything was happening.
So in one sense, a positive that came out of that event was the red line,
the communication link between the two superpowers.
If you saw the film The Sum of All Fears,
you saw a great illustration of that piece of equipment in action.
Communication is vital to relationship.
It's vital to life.
And it's vital to the Christian life as well
because we communicate with God through prayer.
Let's back up.
I believe that communication also comes in the context of relationship.
And so the question can be asked, well, what is our relationship to God?
And I love this verse.
John 15, verse 15 and 16.
Jesus said, I no longer call you servants
because a master doesn't confide in his servants
now you are my friends since i have told you everything the father told me you didn't choose
me i chose you i appointed you to go and produce fruit that will last so the father will give you
whatever you ask using my name we can ask in prayer because god has called us friends do you
believe that, Christians? God has called us friends. Let that sink down a little bit this
morning. That's amazing. God treats us like friends, not as servants. We can know the
heart of God. He wants to know us intimately, and He wants to hear from you, friends of
God. But you know, the sad thing is, across our land, Christians still don't pray. I think one
reason is that somewhere deep down in the lives of many Christians, they believe that still that
God is somehow not interested in their lives. There's still an idea that God has so much else
to do, holding up the universe, taking care of the big catastrophes, that somehow, who
am I?
What is my life in terms of how God sees me and the world?
I think many think that, well, God's not interested in my mortgage or my disagreement with my
co-workers or problems at school or my backache or whatever it is, on and on and on.
Those things seem so unimportant in the big scheme of things.
Friends.
God has called you friends.
And when friends are truly friends, friends share the most intimate details of life.
It's the little things that friends share, don't they?
And God has called us friends and wants us to communicate as friends
The little things he's concerned about, they may be little, but in your life, they're big, aren't they?
And God is concerned about the issues of our lives.
Praise God for that.
I think, friends, if we're going to pray, we're going to have to first start by realizing how much God loves you.
And if I can just speak one thing this morning, if you get nothing else out of all that's been said,
if you will leave this place with this reality that God deeply loves you
and he wants to talk with you, that's what it's all about.
He loves you. He loves you.
And he wants to hear from you.
Prayer is communicating with God who calls us friends.
Lord, teach us to pray. Teach us to pray.
Prayer number three is asking of God.
It's asking of God.
When you're a child in a healthy relationship with your parents, you ask them for things.
You're dependent on them.
You need them, and thus you ask of them.
And the same, friends, is true with our Heavenly Father.
We can ask of Him, and He delights to give to us.
The Bible says in Philippians 4, verse 6,
Don't worry about anything, but in all your prayers, ask God for what you need,
always thanking Him with a thankful heart.
A thankful heart.
Do you notice what it said, don't worry about anything?
I think worrying has become a national sport,
and we're all contenders, 9.5, 9.9.
We're all good at worrying, aren't we?
You're all shaking your heads.
I'm talking to you, aren't I?
We're connecting here, and I'm there too.
I should know better.
We all should know better.
The Bible says we're to quit worrying and commence praying.
Quit worrying.
Commence praying.
We're to ask God for what we need and do it with a thankful heart.
Your relationship with God gets intimate, friends, when you start talking about your real life with Him.
It's one thing to pray about the big issues in the world.
It's one thing to pray about the obvious needs in the world.
And yes, we should do that.
But just like an intimate relationship, it's about the little things, the real issues, the real needs,
the things you might even be embarrassed about,
but the things that really occupy your mind, that we worry about,
and that our stomachs tighten up in little balls all about.
You know what I'm talking about.
God is concerned about those things,
and he wants us to ask for things.
Friends, the Bible is affirming that God's chosen method of meeting our needs
is through prayer.
We need to ask.
We need to ask.
When Brent and Ryan ask me for things,
there's times when I, as a dad, say,
you know, not good choice right now, but you know what, I'm a real softy, and by and large,
I give in, right? I know the difference between things that are not good, but you know what,
because I selfishly love to give to them. It's a blessing for me, because I love to see the delight
in their eyes, when even if it's just gift of time spent playing Legos on the floor, I love to do
that. And the Heavenly Father loves to give to His children. He loves to give to His children.
That's us. Friends. His children. We've got to ask. I also want to share that I've been
reading in the book of Acts in my own personal devotions, and something I'm really struck
with is that how often miracles and power is demonstrated in the early church. It's
almost like you could walk up to an early Christian in the early church in the book
of Acts. It's almost like you could ask them, hey, how's it going today? And they'd say,
well, business as usual. A couple miracles this morning. Praying for one more tonight.
Expect that. You just get a sense that God is moving. And I've asked myself why. I think
because they asked that God would move with power. They expected it. They knew that God
was going to hear their prayers.
And they prayed expectantly
and asked God for power for living
and for the miraculous around them.
And I'm afraid the American church doesn't ask
for God to move in our lives.
I think Christians today live often with the right head knowledge
but with little power
because we simply don't ask for the Spirit to move.
We've got to ask.
The great pastor C.H. Spurgeon of London, England once said this.
I love this.
He said, God never shuts his storehouses until you shut your mouth.
File that one away.
You have to ask.
Prayer is asking of God.
To affirm this, Luke writes these words of Jesus.
Chapter 11.
Is there anyone among you who, if your child asks for a fish, will give a snake instead of a fish?
Or if the child asks for an egg, will give a scorpion?
If you then, who are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children,
how much more will the Heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask Him?
Oh, isn't that beautiful?
He gives good gifts.
If as an imperfect dad, very imperfect,
if I delight and know how to give gifts to my children,
how much more does God, who is our perfect heavenly Father,
how much more does He want to give to us, His friends, and His children?
God delights in giving requests in prayer, or for prayer, in prayer.
Another verse I'm struck with is Psalm 37, 4.
The psalmist writes, delight yourself in the Lord and he will give you the desires of your heart.
Delight yourself in the Lord.
And friends, that's not a suggestion.
That's a command.
Delight yourself in the Lord.
Enjoy the Lord.
If you're doing your best to let the Lord work in your life,
If you're doing your best to seek him and read his word and pray and be a part of the things of God,
if you're doing your best to let God's spirit work in the inner recesses of your heart and life,
then your desires aren't going to be wrong because you're so close to the heartbeat of God.
And he'll give you the desires of your heart.
And so I've got two questions to ask.
Food for thought and for action.
What are you lacking in your life?
simply because you've never asked God for it?
What are you lacking in your life
simply because you have not asked God for whatever it is?
I want you to think about that.
My second question is,
what do you need to ask of God this morning
before you leave today?
What do you need to ask of God before the day is over
and before you even leave today?
Lord, teach us to pray.
My last point this morning
is that prayer is also cooperating with God.
It's cooperating with God.
And I think this one is really exciting to me
because he realized that God has a plan and a purpose
for what's happening here on earth.
And that God has a plan as he's bringing the kingdom
day by day to this earth.
And for those of you that have read Experiencing God
or been through that material,
you're going to remember that the overarching principle that we're studying there
is we're to get in line with what God is already doing.
The challenge for us as Christians is to find out what God is doing
and get underneath and be a part of what He is doing in the world.
And you get in touch with that plan.
One of the primary ways is through prayer.
Friends, when we pray, our hearts and our minds and our souls become transformed
and brought into line with God's agenda.
The more time you spend with God in prayer,
the more your heartbeat is going to beat at the frequency of God's heartbeat.
You will begin to think God's thoughts, and you will feel as God feels,
and you will discern things in life as God sees them
because you've spent time with him
and you're now cooperating with what he's doing.
Jesus taught his disciples to pray and said this, Matthew 6,
Our Father in heaven, may your name be honored.
May your kingdom come.
May your will be done here on earth just as it is in heaven.
your will, your kingdom.
The prayer is asking that they be a part
of what God is doing in the world.
It's cooperating with God.
When Jesus was in the Garden of Gethsemane
wrestling with God's plan for his life,
for the ultimate purpose for which he came,
that he would take away our sin by going to the cross
as a sacrifice for human evil,
In prayer, Jesus is wrestling with the reality that the hour has come.
And he says to the Father,
Father, if you are willing, please take this cup of suffering away from me.
Yet I want your will and not mine.
In prayer, our agenda becomes God's agenda.
In prayer, we are changed.
In prayer, God works in us.
In prayer, the Holy Spirit shifts our priorities to reflect His.
In prayer, we become caught up in God's plan.
And as we become more sensitive to what God is doing in us and in others,
we pray for them more effectively, more effectively.
When you're praying for other people, you are cooperating with God.
We're teaming up with God to accomplish His purposes in the world.
And friends, I think one of the fun things about prayer is it's not limited by space and time.
Prayers today can be answered immediately, or those prayers might be answered in the future,
and they're not limited by space.
Prayers prayed from Fullerton, from North Orange County, California,
can go all over this city, all over this nation, all over this planet.
It's better than a web page because you're really going there in prayer.
You can pray in Fullerton.
It's like sending a rocket all the way to Washington, D.C.
You can have God affecting things all over the world.
I can get up tomorrow morning and go into my study and pray for our missionaries in various parts of this planet,
and you could ask me what you've been doing, and I could say in all seriousness,
I've been getting around to the Middle East, I've been going to Africa, I've been going to Asia,
and I would be truthful in what I'm saying.
Prayer gets us around the world and makes changes and affects things in this world.
What a privilege you have.
Some of you think that you can't do much now,
that now that your bodies are changing and you just don't have the energy to get out and do as much,
you may have been great servants in being around this place and doing a lot of things.
And I realize it's difficult to make those shifts as we get older and as we age.
I do karate and I'm realizing I am not as young as I used to be.
And that sounds crazy from a guy in his mid-30s, but you know what?
When I'm competing against a 15-year-old, he's limber as a rubber band.
I am not.
And I hurt the next day.
Thank you, Mario.
But I know, so we age, we change, things happen.
But you know what?
As we're getting along in years, you can pray and you can accomplish more in prayer
than even if you came down here and did physical things.
In fact, I would bet you're probably doing even more important things through prayer.
Never let it be said that we retire from the kingdom work
because in prayer you can accomplish much, says the Scripture.
And never forget it.
And your prayers can change things around the world
from right in your bedroom or your den or in this sanctuary.
Prayer is effectual and prayer is cooperating with our God.
What a privilege it is.
To wrap it up, let me just say this.
The prayer is depending on God, it's communicating with God, it's asking of God, and it's cooperating with God.
It's a marvelous gift that we have in this incredible entity called prayer.
And I'm just going to challenge us to take up that powerful tool
and may it change our lives and change the lives of this church
and may it change the lives for those for whom we pray.
May we take this arsenal seriously and use it as God intends for his glory and for his purposes.
And so, friends, together, let us pray.
Lord, teach us to pray.
May we at Fullerton be faithful in learning how to pray.
And not only just learning, Father, may we learn that we may apply.
that we may be truly prayer warriors
praying every day.
The Bible says to pray without ceasing.
Father, may that be our heart.
May that be our actions.
And I pray, Father,
you take these words and these scriptures,
that you conform it to the individual needs
of each one of us today
and that you begin growing us up
to a new level in prayer.
And so I pray, Father,
for this congregation of delightful people
that wherever they are in prayer today,
that you take them to the next step,
that you'd move them to a new place
in believing prayer,
in stepping out and praying for others,
in just asking of you for their lives.
And Father, your word says that much can be accomplished.
I pray we would see dynamic changes in lives around us
because this church continues to pray.
So, Father, we ask that you bless us with your Holy Spirit,
that we might pray according to what you would have for us to pray about,
that we would truly be a cooperating church with you for the kingdom's sake,
and we'd see many lives transformed because of the prayers offered in faith from this body.
So do these things we ask, and we look forward to the testimony of what happens when we pray.
Father, I pray this morning that you also would come
and let those who may not know you yet
know that they are loved
and that through Jesus Christ, they can be forgiven,
that they can start fresh and new.
And if there are any this morning
that need to commit themselves to the Jesus Christ,
to recommit or for the first time step out and say,
I need a new start, I need Jesus.
I want to pray and have things happen
because my Heavenly Father is there with me
if you're in that place today
you might pray something like this
Father I thank you
that you sent Jesus to die for me
in my place
I know I've done wrong things
I've gone my own way
I've messed up my life
but I want a new start
I want fresh
I want the Holy Spirit in me
and so I'm sorry
the things I've done, the things I've said,
the things I've even thought.
And I want it erased, that I may live fresh and new in you.
And as much as I understand today I'm going to live for you,
and I pray that you'd help me each day be faithful.
My life is now yours, and I thank you for your grace.
In Jesus' name.
I invite you to stand this morning as we sing one more song together.
And I'd like to say, if I've spoken to you...
