Thank you, Kirk. What a joy to be back at First Baptist and to see the product.
I had seen the multi-purpose building in completion, but the last time I was in this room, it was filled with rolled-up carpet and still was kind of a mess and hard to envision.
I don't envision well, and when I walked in here this morning, it was kind of breathtaking to see what God has accomplished.
It's really neat to be back at First Baptist, to be with Kirk and with good friends here.
Let me tell you a story about a man named Larry Walters.
You've heard this story probably if you live in the L.A. area.
It happened a few years ago.
Larry was a truck driver who had a lifelong dream to fly.
And because of poor eyesight that made it impossible for him to get a pilot's license,
He would often sit out in his lawn chair in the evening
and watch the birds overhead and the planes fly by.
And he'd say, man, I wish I could get up in the sky.
So one day he got this bright idea.
He decided that he would go down to the local Army-Navy surplus store,
and he bought 45 weather balloons.
How he picked 45, that's the part that mystifies me the most.
Some of this I can understand.
He bought a tank of helium and 45 weather balloons.
He goes home.
He attaches the weather balloons with an anchor to his Jeep.
And then he blows them up, 45 of them, with helium.
Now, one weather balloon is about four feet across.
He has 45 of these babies on there.
And he goes in and he packs a sandwich,
gets a couple of cold drinks and a BB gun, sits down in his lawn chair, he cuts the anchor cord
and he thought that he would just kind of float lazily up in the sky over the treetops, over the
houses, just take a leisurely ride. He had his BB gun along because he thought that he could just
shoot out a few balloons as he wanted to come lower and get back to earth and so he's all set
but he's got all these balloons loaded with helium.
He's got his sandwiches, Dr. Pepper, or whatever.
And he gets in the balloon, he cuts the anchor,
and instead of floating lazily up like he expected,
it was whoop, like he had been shot out of a jet.
And he doesn't go, you know, 500 feet up in the air.
He goes 11,000 feet up in the air.
That's over two miles, I think, pretty close to it.
And so now he's afraid to use his BB gun.
and I would have lost my lunch for sure.
I don't know what he did with his sandwich and his pop,
but he's up there two miles in the air,
afraid to use a BB gun,
thinking it'll get unbalanced and he'll get dumped out of the lawn chair.
He's 14 hours up in the air.
Finally, the wind currents carry him into the approach path of LAX,
and a pilot coming in says, pilot to tower,
11,000 feet, just passed a man in a lawn chair with a BB gun.
Don't you love it?
I think they're probably ready to, you know, ground this pilot for drinking or something, you know.
And, you know, certainly I suppose this guy doesn't look like a terrorist sitting there in a lawn chair with a BB gun.
So they send for the Navy.
the Navy helicopter comes, and finally, after some difficulty,
gets attached to the man's balloons in his lawn chair,
bring him back to earth, whereupon he is immediately arrested by the LAPD.
And as they handcuff him and are carrying him away,
some reporter says, Mr. Walters, Mr. Walters, why did you do it?
And Larry Walters said, and I quote,
Well, a man just can't sit around forever, can he?
Well, no.
We began a capital stewardship program here at First Baptist in the year 2000.
We've seen God do some marvelous things in our midst.
And I guess today maybe I would echo Larry Walters.
We just can't sit around, can we?
And why would anybody want to?
when we've seen God at work as we've seen here in this church
when we've seen God doing marvelous things
why wouldn't everyone want to be a part of that
why wouldn't everyone want to step up and volunteer
and be responsible for part of what is taking place
Pastor Kirk recently spoke on spiritual gifts
several messages
I think in the next week or two he's going to launch into a series on stewardship
I thought this morning maybe I'd like to just kind of be the bridge between those two ideas
Very spiritual, very important ideas
And talk about the intersection of gifts and giving
In 2 Corinthians chapter 9, let me begin reading with verse 8
it says and God is able to make all grace abound to you so that in all things and at all times
having all that you need you will abound in every good work as it is written he has scattered
abroad his gifts to the poor his righteousness endures forever now he who supplies seed to the
sower and bread for food will also supply and increase your store of seed and will enlarge the
harvest of your righteousness you will be made rich in every way so that you can be generous
on every occasion and through us your generosity will result in thanksgiving to God this service
that you perform is not only supplying the needs of God's people but is also overflowing in many
expressions of thanks to God because of the service by which you approved yourselves men will praise
Praise God for the obedience that accompanies your confession of the gospel in Christ
and for your generosity in sharing with them and with everyone else.
And in their prayers for you, their hearts will go out to you
because of the surpassing grace God has given you.
Thanks be to God for his indescribable gift.
He's talking about spiritual gifts, but he's talking about giving.
They've been giving spiritual gifts,
but they also have a responsibility to be good stewards.
In the Corinthian letters,
Paul gives his most comprehensive teaching about spiritual gifts.
Also, in those same letters,
he gives his most comprehensive teaching about spiritual giving,
about stewardship, about the management of the resources,
the physical financial resources with which God has entrusted us.
Now, when you come to Peter's writing, Peter also intersects the two subjects of giving, of spiritual gifts and giving in 1 Peter chapter 4.
The Revised Standard Version puts it this way,
As each has received a gift, employ it for one another as good stewards of God's varied grace.
the holy spirit is given to us for ministry this grace is a is a capacity for service for every
true christian without exception and it was something that we did not possess before we
became christians the holy spirit at the moment of our spiritual birth into christ imparts
the life of christ in us and with that comes spiritual
gifting a gift or in some cases gifts plural that we are to
discover and exercise for the glory of christ first corinthians 12 7
now to each one that's all of us everyone who knows jesus christ to each
one the manifestation of the holy spirit is given for the common good god does not distribute his
spiritual gifts so that we can sit in a corner and suck our spiritual gift thumb and think isn't
this wonderful i'm blessed and i can but it's for the blessing of others it's to be used
to enrich other lives and in each place uh where the gifts of the spirit are mentioned in the
scripture the emphasis is on the fact that every christian has at least one spiritual gift so our
responsibility is is to discover the gifts i know bruce bruce is taught is teaching on this now
pastor has taught on it on sunday mornings the value of our christian life is determined by how
we use the gifts that god has entrusted to us has blessed us with now soren kirkegaard
the danish philosopher and teacher has a great story about a make-believe land in which only
ducks lived he says on a sunday morning all the ducks go up brush their feathers all the ducks
got up brush their feathers and waddled the church after waddling down the church aisle and into their
pews they squatted shortly the duck minister waddled in and took his place behind the pulpit
But he opened the duck Bible to the place where it spoke of God's great gift to ducks, wings.
With wings, said the duck preacher, you ducks can fly.
You can mount up like eagles and soar into the heavens.
You can escape the confinement of pins and fences.
You can know the euphoria of complete freedom.
You must give thanks to God for so great a gift as wings.
and all the ducks in the congregation agreed and shouted,
Amen, and then they all waddled home.
That sounds like some churches I've known.
We get excited, we hear about these things,
we go to seminars, we go to classes, and then we all waddle home.
Spiritual gifts are given for the common good.
These gifts, and I think they're not completely exhausted in the Scripture,
There are 29 or 30 or so different counts of gifts that are mentioned by Paul
and other writers in the New Testament,
and I think that's not all of them, that there are probably multiplied gifts,
and he's only giving those as examples.
Here's Reuben, who's got the gifts of evangelism,
which is mentioned in the Scripture, but the gift of carpentry, which maybe is not.
Many gifts are given to us, and they are given to us for what reason?
to fulfill God's purpose on earth.
They enable us to do what God intends the church to do.
A second challenge to the Corinthians, and to us as well,
is to do as well in our giving as in the rest of our Christian life.
2 Corinthians 8, 7,
Just as you abound in everything in faith and utterance and knowledge
and in all earnestness and in the love we inspired in you
see that you abound in this gracious work also.
What gracious work is he talking about?
He's talking about spiritual giving, faithful stewardship.
Now the Corinthian church was a very vibrant and exciting church
as far as their spiritual gifting was concerned.
But to this point, Paul was concerned that they had not yet
that entered into generous giving and abounding in the grace of giving.
They had not discovered that joy.
They spoke in tongues.
They had many other gifts, but they had not really discovered the joy of giving.
And so Paul is saying you need to learn the grace of giving.
And when you do that, you will rise to even newer and higher levels of spiritual maturity.
How balanced is your Christian life?
Are you as committed to giving as you are to worship or Bible study or witnessing or prayer?
And if you're not committed to any of those things, well, then I pray for you.
But some folks get committed to one part of their life and leave another undone.
Someone wrote, if the margins of your Bible are crowded with study notes,
but your checkbook is filled entirely with entries to Nordstrom's Visa
and American Express, then chances are your life is out of balance.
At the intersection, and this is really the point I want to make this morning,
at the intersection of gifts and giving is ministry.
This is why we are blessed with spiritual gifts,
and this is why we must be responsible stewards with our resources.
Two great passages from the lips of Jesus define our ministry purpose.
The first of those is the Great Commission.
This is the charter, the marching orders of the church.
And the second passage is the Great Commission,
Jesus' specific instruction on how to put his commands into practice.
The Great Commission, of course, is found in Matthew 28, verses 19 and 20,
when he said,
Go, therefore, and make disciples of all nations,
baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit,
teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you,
and surely I am with you always, even to the very end of the age.
Two primary tasks of the church are outlined in the Great Commission.
First of all, Jesus calls us to evangelism, making disciples.
And secondly, he calls us to edification, that is teaching obedience to his commands.
Making disciples is the evangelistic task of the church.
Now, perhaps to some Baptists' surprise,
making disciples is different from getting a soul saved.
We have often put the emphasis on walking the aisle and making the decision.
But the fact is, not all deciders become disciples.
The two are not synonymous.
And the biblical goal is not just to get a person to walk an aisle
and make an oral confession.
God's goal is transformed lives and participation,
active participation in Christ's church.
In fact, the word decision, important as it is,
is not found in the Bible,
but the word disciple is used repeatedly.
And the term disciple was the most popular term for early believers.
It meant more than being a convert, more than being a church member,
The disciple attached himself to a teacher, identified with that person,
learned from that person, lived with that person,
and learned not simply by listening but also by doing.
That was why Jesus gathered 12 men around him.
He discipled them.
That's why the Apostle Paul constantly had young men with him
like Timothy and Titus and others who followed after him,
learning ministry and participating in ministry with him now jesus tells us that we're made
disciples in the great commission in the great commandment when a pharisee tested him it's in
matthew 22 beginning with verse 36 this pharisee said teacher which is the greatest commandment in
the law jesus replied love the lord your god with all your heart and with all your soul and with all
your mind and the second is like it love your neighbor as yourself all the law and the prophets
hang on these two commandments in other words these two commandments sort of summarize the
ten commandments and the other old testament moral laws if we truly love god and if we truly
love one another we will keep the commandments jesus was positive in the way he stated that
The Pharisees were very good on having lists of do-nots.
And they developed, you know, multitudes.
In fact, their Mishnah and all was more extensive even than the Bible teaching was.
Jesus emphasizes the positive factor.
Instead of fussing about all that we should not do,
we should focus on what we should do to show our love for God and others.
and for these purposes we are empowered by the holy spirit in matthew chapter 6 jesus talked about
the necessities of life food and clothing and so on and he said in verse 32 and 33 in the living
bible your heavenly father knows perfectly well that you need these things and he will give them
to you if you give him first place in your life and live as he wants you to. Hebrews 11 6 says God
rewards those who earnestly seek him. Unless you've discovered what it is to to really seek
after God to really run hard after God then the possibility is that that you really don't know
what it means to believe that God will reward you the big lie of the world and of the devil
is that God is a cosmic killjoy and if you really devote yourself to God well then you're just
giving yourself to a mundane meaningless ugly life and the opposite is obviously true if you
want to really know the gusto then go after God seek him with a whole heart put Christ first in
your life. The greatest crisis in the American church is not the secularization of society but
the secularizing of the church. In fact, we learned sadly from George Barna and George Gallup and
other pollsters that there's not a whole lot of difference in the lifestyles of those who make
up the church and those who never go to church uh george gallup says it doesn't make much
difference whether you go to church or play golf or do laundry on sunday morning as far as
lifestyles are concerned in many cases i'm not i'm going to emphasize that it is very important
to go to church but gallup says that church attendance makes little difference in people's
ethical views and behavior many so-called believers have accepted a decaffeinated christianity it
promises not to keep you awake at night several years ago i heard your dad sam hockstetter former
pastor of this church uh lowell fairly who's also a former pastor of this church had uh sam speak at
a minister's meeting and he shared something i'd read before but when he shared it it took on new
meaning for me and uh it talks about some people that want just enough of god to make them
comfortable fact is that true christianity always has a level of discomfort you can't be a true
follower of jesus christ and just sit comfortably we can't just sit around forever can we said that
guy you know uh wilbur reese and this this is what sam shared said i would like to buy three dollars
of god worth of god please not enough to explode my soul or disturb my sleep but just enough to
equal a cup of warm milk or a snooze in the sunshine i don't want enough of him to make me
love a black man or to pick beats with a migrant i want ecstasy not transformation i want warmth i
want the warmth of the womb not a new birth i want a pound of the eternal in a paper sack
I would like to buy $3 worth of God, please.
Can you imagine that?
Listen, folks, at the intersection of spiritual gifts and spiritual giving
is a commitment to the body of Christ.
Our spiritual gifts are that we might ennoble the body
and its ministry to the world,
and our spiritual giving is that we might enable the body to do ministry in the world.
Our greatest resource as Christians is the presence of Jesus Christ
and the second most precious possession is the fellowship of God's people.
A body of believers can be classified as a church
whenever and wherever that group meets on a regular basis
for the purpose of mutual edification.
And as a church grows and becomes mature and dynamic,
it does so when it has believers that meet together regularly.
Jesus said, where two or three are gathered together in my name,
there I will be in the midst of them.
He loves the gathering of those who love him.
and he knows the failure of solitary christianity and i had time i could have told you some great
stories along that but i i must not take time with that this morning let me just remind you
what the bible says in the book of hebrews it says let us not give up meeting together as some
are in the habit of doing but let us encourage one another and all the more as you see the day
approaching we gather together in celebration as we've come together this morning we gather
together in small groups to worship and to stimulate one another in the life of Christ
Ann Ortlund put it together put it so well several years ago when she wrote these words she said
every congregation has a choice to be one of two things.
You can choose to be a bag of marbles,
single units that don't affect each other except in collision.
On Sunday morning, you can choose to go to church or sleep in
because who really cares whether there are 192 or 193 marbles in a bag.
They're just bumping against each other.
She said, or you can choose to be a bag of grapes.
The juices begin to mingle,
and there's no way to extricate yourselves if you try.
Each is part of all, part of the fragrance, part of the stuff.
Now, frankly, that takes place only partially on Sunday mornings.
The book of Acts tells us that the church met together often.
and every day they continued to meet together in the temple courts.
They broke bread in their homes and ate together with glad and sincere hearts.
They celebrated worship together in the temple,
but they also got together in small groupings.
It was not either big worship or small groups.
It was both ends.
When you've been together in small groups,
praying and studying and confessing your needs
and holding each other accountable and lifting each other up,
then you'll be drawn together on Sunday morning
into the magnetic field of the Holy Spirit-filled love and praise.
So I encourage you, commit yourself to the body of Christ.
Paul committed himself to Christ's body, and he said,
In Christ's body we who are many form one body,
and each member belongs to all the others.
We belong to one another.
And if the church is truly united, then it becomes a showcase
to a world that is truly divided.
Each man living for his own interest, having the Enrons and all of the greed
and the stuff that we've seen in the world in the last year or so,
the church becomes a showcase that puts that stuff in its true light
when God's people truly love one another
and make their commitment to the body of Christ.
And then, at the intersection of gifts and giving, is the commitment to the world.
The church is not in the world to be consumed with itself.
We are here to fulfill the Great Commission.
We are, and I know this more and more every day as I read the news and news magazines
and watch the television news and news stations,
we are in a world that is at war with god that's all there is to it we are in a world
that is at war with god and jesus said i will build my church and the gates of hell
shall not prevail against it kirk mentioned i started preaching when i was 14 i grew up in
Oklahoma Southern Missouri and then Oklahoma and moved to California 39
years ago and at that time if you'd moved out here from Oklahoma you were
called okie that was bad you know people thought badly of you if you were an
okie and it bothered me until I discovered that will Rogers said that
When the Okies moved to California, it raised the IQ level of both states.
Anyway, I grew up in my little church in Oklahoma, and we'd sing,
Hold the Fort, you know.
There's a song.
God forbid, I hope it's not in your hymnal, but it was,
Hold the fort for I am coming.
Jesus signals still.
Wave the answer back to heaven.
You know, people would take out their old, dirty handkerchiefs
and wave them when they say,
Hold the fort for I am coming.
That's not the picture.
That's not the picture.
This does not picture the church as being a fort
that is trying to hang on by the skin of its teeth
while Satan is moving against it.
Rather, it pictures the church as an army
that is advancing on the gates of hell.
Our culture has turned away from God,
but we're not together in little huddles and bite our nails
and shiver in our fear and say,
oh, what are we going to do now?
But we are given the responsibility through God's spiritual gifting
and the resources that he supplied to us
to penetrate our culture with good news.
we are strengthened for this battle
as we commit ourselves to Christ and then to one another
and we can establish beachheads in this culture
so that men and women and boys and girls
can be brought to decisions for Christ
so that they may take this first step
in becoming a disciple of Christ
a great commitment
Rick Warren has said it
made it popular in these days
but it certainly far precedes Saddleback.
He says a great commitment to the Great Commission
and the Great Commandment will build a great church.
And I couldn't agree more.
And from these two passages, we understand that our spiritual gifts
and our spiritual giving are concentrated on the purpose of being
and developing committed followers of Jesus Christ.
And as a part of our purpose, we celebrate the living God.
We love the Lord our God.
with all our heart that's worship how do you love God with all your heart you
love him by worshiping him now I enjoy together with this church I told choir
this Kirk this morning that the choir that sings in the earlier service is a
small choir but it really is one of the better sounding choirs that I hear as I
go around the whole lot of churches they really really have a nice quality sound
and then in this service we don't have the choir but we sing our praises and
lift our voices and our hands to god and we worship god and in both settings i find it
wonderful to worship worship is expressing our love to god and we can do that whether we're
alone out in the woods someplace or whether we're gathered with 10 000 people in a stadium
or whether we are meeting in our small group we can worship god anytime you express your love to
god you worship him that's the constant call of scripture the psalmist says glorify the lord with
me let us exalt his name together i rejoiced with those who said to me let us go to the house of the
lord and jesus said worship the lord your god and serve him only we are to serve god but worship
is the priority we also as a part of our purpose cultivate personal growth in christ teaching them
to obey everything i have commanded you that is discipleship we educate we edify we encourage
We bring God's people to maturity.
Pastors and teachers and spiritual gifts are given to the church
so that God's people will be equipped to do better work for him,
building up the church, the body of Christ,
to a position of strength and maturity
until all become full-grown in Christ,
as the Living Bible puts Ephesians 4, 12 and 13.
Another part of our purpose as a church
is to care for one another.
The Great Commission says love your neighbor as yourself.
That's ministry.
Ministry is sharing God's love by meeting needs and healing hurts.
And every time we reach out to those who need love,
who need Christ, we minister to them.
And a core value of this church, I am sure,
is that every member is a minister.
We are all to minister our spiritual gifts.
And so if you're not a part of that, I urge you to join a Sunday school class
or a small group and find an arena for ministry for caring for others.
Finally, and quickly, I come to a conclusion.
Our task is communicating Christ to the world.
I'm going to Eastern Europe in December.
I serve part-time, not for any pay, but just as a volunteer
with a mission in Eastern Europe.
So I'll be in Poland, Hungary, Turkey, and Russia in December.
You've got to be real smart to go to Russia in December.
But that's the only time in my calendar that's free enough to do that.
I love seeing Romania.
Some of the people I served in Hungary teach pastors in Romania.
And a part of our purpose in the Great Commission,
go make disciples of all nations.
That's evangelism. That's missions.
No one becomes a disciple without, first of all, making a decision for Christ.
Jesus said, you shall be my witnesses.
Make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father,
the Son, and the Holy Spirit.
Baptism, which happens here regularly, is a symbol of incorporating
believers into the body it's the outward sign of welcoming new members into the family bringing
them into fellowship because the christian life is not just believing it is belonging let me wrap
this up at the intersection of gifts and giving there is ministry i was recently touched by a
story i heard about a young fellow that worked the car wash you know you go through the brushes do
their job you sit down the one I use out in Corona I sit down and read my paper or something
while there were some young fella out there's wiping off the car drying it polishing the wheels
you know making it presentable and this young fella had a job doing that on this one day he
got a car that was the most awesome car he had ever seen in his life this morning George said
George Mattis said to me at the at the break said I really like your car and I said oh yeah I didn't
know I knew about my car he said yeah and he pointed to a beamer was out here a little convertible
beamer that I'd give an arm for you know I'd love a car like that but this this kid said this is the
most awesome car I have ever seen and and he told the man that when he when he gave him back his
keys and the man gave him a tip and said hey thank you son he said uh actually my brother
gave this car to me for my birthday a few weeks ago and the kid was just blown away and he said
man i wish i and how would you finish that sentence had i would i would say i wish i had
a brother like that that's not what he said this kid working in a car wash said man i wish i could
be a brother like that and i read that and it just blew me away i started crying i wish i could be a
brother this kid was exceptional he was different he was extraordinary because he wanted to be able
to do something like that for someone else.
And that is where spiritual giving and spiritual gifts intersect.
Real Christians use their gifts and their resources
to be a brother or a sister
who is a blessing in the lives of others.
God bless you as you continue to do that.
