Thank you, Betty and David, every valley from Handel's Messiah.
I just want to share with you a funny moment, speaking of music.
I was preparing last night, driving to my brother's home.
He and his wife had an open house that my family went to, and as we were driving up the freeway,
I was listening to music in preparing for the first of the year for the experience,
the rock and roll experience over here in the gym.
And I was kind of listening to various classic rock songs that we're going to be doing,
And I was listening for guitar trills and notes and things, and my sons, bless their
heart, they said, Dad, turn down your music.
I knew.
I've still got it.
I'm still with it.
My music was too loud.
Wow.
In all seriousness this morning, I do want to say a note to those who were, and it's
a very awkward transition, I realize it, but I also want to say to those of you that are
survivors of Pearl Harbor.
62 years ago,
many of you, some of you were there, some of you
have family members that were there, and we
just want to say again, thank you and God
bless you for your service, and we
remember you today.
George Harrison, the Beatles,
if you recall him,
he died two years ago on December 1st
of 2001.
And there was a reporter from Rolling Stone magazine
that quoted him as saying,
everything else in
life can wait.
But the search for God cannot wait.
That's an ex-Beatle saying that everything else in life can wait,
but the search for God cannot wait.
It's profound.
I don't know if he ever found the Lord, but I know what he said is true.
The search for God is the most important thing in life on earth.
It is the all-important quest.
And the end of the year, of course, is a traditional time to reflect on our relationships, our spiritual journey, our engagement with things eternal.
No matter what kind of faith people have, the end of the year seems to bring about an openness to spiritual things.
And the first Sunday in Advent we had last week, we celebrated that vigilant waiting for the birth of Christ, signified by the candle of hope.
And this morning, the second Sunday in Advent, represents our personal preparation for the birth of Christ, signified by the candle of peace.
My friends, our quest for God and God's quest for us is what the birth of Christ and Christmas is all about.
It's about God's quest for us.
from Matthew chapter 3.
In those days, John the Baptist came,
preaching in the desert of Judea and saying,
Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is near.
This is he who was spoken of through the prophet Isaiah,
a voice of one calling in the desert,
Prepare the way for the Lord.
Make straight paths for him.
Now John's clothes were made of camel's hair,
and he had a leather belt around his waist.
His food was locusts and wild honey.
And people went out to him from Jerusalem and all Judea
and the whole region of the Jordan, confessing their sins.
They were baptized by him in the Jordan River.
But when he saw many of the Pharisees and the Sadducees
coming to where he was baptizing, he said to them,
You brood of vipers, who warned you to flee from the coming wrath?
Produce fruit in keeping with repentance.
And do not think you can say to yourselves,
we have Abraham as our father.
I tell you that out of these stones,
God will raise up children for Abraham.
The good fruit, the ax rather,
is already at the root of the trees
and every tree that does not produce good fruit
will be cut down and thrown into the fire.
I baptize you with water for repentance,
But after me will come one who is more powerful than I, whose sandals I am not fit to carry.
He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire.
His winnowing fork is in his hand, and he will clear the threshing floor,
gathering his wheat into the barn and burning up the chaff with unquenchable fire.
God broke the silence.
When John the Baptist spoke, God broke the silence.
That period of time between the Old Testament and the New Testament was a spiritually dark time.
God, it seemed, had been silent.
Prophecy had led people to expect a Messiah, but still they waited.
And despite that dark spiritual tone of the land,
There were those who were eagerly waiting, please come Messiah, please come.
And then a man came, resembling the prophet Elijah, resembling him in manner and in dress.
His cry was from God, a voice out of the silence.
And his message was strong.
Let's face it, his breath was probably strong.
His dress code made a statement.
This man you could not ignore.
A voice that came not from the city, the place of the people and the hustle and the bustle.
No, the voice came from the desert, from the wilderness, from the place of quiet, a place of loneliness.
A place where people became open to the things of God.
And there, a voice cried out.
The wilderness was not only a place that symbolized an openness to God.
Israel had also disobeyed God in the wilderness in generations past.
And there they had found judgment and God's mercy.
And so it was startling that God would break the silence and speak from the desert.
And the people came.
They came from all classes, all stripes.
They came to see the spectacle in the desert, to see the scruffy man that looked like Elijah,
who ate meals off the land, who resembled the very poorest of the poor.
And through that man, the silence was broken.
Well, this event, this breaking of the silence had been prophesied hundreds of years before
in Isaiah chapter 40, comfort, comfort my people, says your God.
speak tenderly to Jerusalem
and proclaim to her
that her hard service has been completed
that her sin has been paid for
that she has received from the Lord's hand
double for all her sins
a voice of one calling
in the desert prepare the way for the Lord
make straight in the wilderness a highway for our God
every valley shall be raised up
every mountain and hill made low
The rough ground shall become level, the rugged places a plain.
And the glory of the Lord will be revealed, and all mankind together will see it.
For the mouth of the Lord has spoken.
Isaiah chapter 40.
And now this text comes alive in John the Baptist.
God has broken the silence.
God is speaking again.
And the message is this.
Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is near.
The kingdom of heaven is near.
What does that mean?
The kingdom of heaven is a phrase that expresses that God's rule has begun.
It's a phrase that says God is doing something.
When Jesus comes, God in the flesh, the kingdom of God has come on earth.
And when Jesus comes again, the kingdom of God will finally be consummated.
And now the kingdom is drawing near.
The baby is about to come.
The message is get ready and repent.
Repentance is a great word.
It means literally, in the biblical sense, to change one's mind, to go a different direction.
It's a decision, not only to decide to do something different, but an action, backed up by a resolve, to really do something different.
It's a radical notion, because it means more than just a deviation from course.
It means 180 degrees about face kind of direction change.
Another has simply described repentance this way.
It's simply to stop running after everything else and see that God is pursuing us.
It's to make decisions for God in our daily life that shows where our hope really lies.
It's turning into the face of God.
it's a funny word repentance today we don't hear it much
I think we're numb to the idea of repentance
because our world doesn't conceive that anything is really wrong
there's really nothing to repent from
because nothing is actually wrong
whatever one thinks they're the harbiter
and the determiner of morality
and it doesn't matter what you do
and so we don't hear the word repentance much in our culture
But John says still and speaks to us, he says, repent.
Get ready for the coming of the Lord.
Notice he was talking first to the Jewish people, the chosen people.
People that were sure that by their practices and their lineage that they were right with God.
They had the right credentials.
They had the right pedigree.
There was a TV show called MASH.
Many of you remember this one.
And Dr. Charles Emerson Winchester III made it clear what separated him from everybody else was this quote,
I'm a Winchester.
I can't do the accent, but you know the phrase.
He was a Winchester and everybody else was not.
And that's why he was superior.
He was a Winchester.
For him, the family name, his pedigree, separated him from everybody else.
And he let you know it.
Other people carry other burdens similarly.
One woman received her education at Harvard and found a way to work Harvard into every conversation.
You've met those types.
That idea, that kind of spirit, that kind of heart is what John the Baptist is dealing with.
He's challenging these people.
It doesn't matter what lineage you come from, what family you come from,
what university you graduated from, what credentials you hold.
Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is near.
You see, coming from the right family doesn't necessarily produce life change that honors God.
And so John said to these people, repent.
Friends, I want us to know that God's purposes are not just restricted to the Israelites.
Because God is interested in the people of all nations, all colors, all backgrounds, all classes, all people.
Jesus came for everyone.
And it blows the mind of the Israelite who has the right pedigree.
And John's preaching extends to all the people.
It puts them all on the level playing field.
To enter the kingdom of God, we must repent, all of us,
and ultimately accept Jesus Christ, who he is and what he's done.
In the midst of John's preaching, he then points to Jesus,
the fulfillment of this prophecy from Isaiah.
And John declares that Jesus of Nazareth is God.
Friends, to find God, we have to seek Jesus.
And no matter whether you go to church or go to the right places of worship
or listen to the right radio programs or watch the right television preachers
or try and do all the right things, it's all about Jesus.
It's only about Jesus.
And real peace and real fulfillment and real wholeness comes only in the person and the work of Jesus Christ.
The man from the little town of Bethlehem, the one to whom John the Baptist points, is
God in the flesh.
God in the flesh come to baptize his followers in the power of the Holy Spirit.
What we see here is John's preaching and baptizing, anticipating the preaching and the baptizing
activity of Jesus the Christ.
And then John talks about Jesus' winnowing fork.
As one who was raised in the suburbs, I don't know anything about farming or farming instruments.
And I suspect many of us don't either.
What is a winnowing fork?
A winnowing fork was a farm tool.
I imagine it looking something like a pitchfork.
Designed to do one thing, to throw the trampled wheat up into the air.
whereby the wind begins to separate the good grain as it falls to earth
and separates it from the light what they call chaff
which is the refuse part of the trampled grain as it blows away in the air.
And as you throw the wheat up into the air
the grains fall and the chaff is blown away.
And that's the word picture that Jesus uses in this agrarian society
as they spoke to their hearts and said
God is going to separate people who truly know Jesus,
who truly are of the kingdom from those who are not.
And the question he's asking is whose side are you on?
Who do you follow?
Who really fills your heart?
And so the challenge becomes we must break our silence.
There was a professor at the University of Pennsylvania Law School
that for more than 20 years, every year as he began his sessions in September,
He would start the first class like this.
He would go to the blackboard, take a piece of chalk,
and he drew two numbers, a two and a four.
And he asked the class, what's the solution?
And invariably one student would shout out six,
and somebody else would shout out two,
and somebody else would shout out eight.
And he would shake his head.
Every year he would shake his head.
And he said this year after year, ladies and gentlemen,
Unless you know what the problem is, you cannot possibly find the answer.
I have not given you yet the problem.
Friends, in seeking to prepare for the coming of Jesus,
in seeking to truly have our hearts molded into the conformity of the character of Christ,
to truly repent and to be open to the things of God,
we need to know what the problem is.
you cannot go ramshackle into repentance until we know what the problem is and the problem friends
is us the problem is we desire as the scriptures say to do our own things and to go our own way
and we need sometimes to reflect and say lord i know you but sometimes i still meander i don't
trust. I don't follow. Sometimes I don't believe you're going to come through in the pinch and I
lose faith. Whatever your experience, you need to know what the problem is. Some of you this morning
are hurting deep down inside. You may not even realize it consciously, but when you begin to
process the things I'm going to say in the next few moments, I think you'll realize it's true.
I spoke to a good friend of mine yesterday, my friend Jeff, psychologist.
We shared our hearts and spent a few moments, and a comment he said again is so true.
We're broken people leading broken people.
And that's really the human condition.
All of us have our hurts, our pains, our struggles.
We're all imperfect before God.
All of us need a Savior.
We're broken people leading other broken people.
It's when we get honest about that that life really takes on real meaning and real purpose.
Some of you this morning are hurting about events that have happened in this church both recently and years ago.
People have offended you or leaders have offended or hurt you.
Politics in the church has been brutal at times to you.
And the result can be anger and mistrust or fear, whatever it is.
Friends, sometimes we may be living and doing all the right things,
but deep down we're harboring anger towards others and pain and frustration.
And sometimes we just have to give it up to the Lord and confess those things.
Let God heal those things.
Friends, unresolved hurts and pains in the life of believers that are buried down deep,
they can affect how we relate to each other.
We carry those around and we make commitments in our soul
that we're never going to get hurt again.
And so we don't let anybody else really touch our soul.
Because when somebody touches our soul, we can get hurt.
And so we commit to putting up barriers and walls and always being fine
and never letting anybody really touch those places in our souls
that Jesus wants to mold and to shape and to grow and to heal.
Some of you this morning are hurting from issues in your families in which you grew up.
And if I was to just begin to take a poll, we could all share various stories.
Some didn't get the love you deserved.
Some had parents unstable, destructive to you emotionally.
Some just put incredible amounts of pressure upon you.
And to deal with all of that, you've created patterns of relating to others that keep people at a distance.
You're not going to let people that are supposed to love you get close enough because they always hurt you.
So you put up walls and we stay distant from each other.
And the reason I bring that up, friends, is that our commitment to protecting ourselves like that is sin.
Because Jesus calls us to love each other as he has loved us.
And we really can't love each other from behind walls, can we?
When we're defended, we can't actually let somebody's soul touch ours,
and we can't touch somebody else's soul because the walls are too high.
And so I'm speaking to a congregation I know that you don't run around
and do crazy things in the middle of the night,
and I know that you are a good, upstanding congregation of people.
You don't race your cars too fast, and you don't drink and drive,
and you don't beat up your friends, and I know all this.
But, you know, deep down we can still have sin in our hearts that's not seen outside.
It's these emotional, relational things.
We protect ourselves.
We don't really let anybody touch us.
We don't really touch anybody else.
We really don't lead or encourage.
We just kind of go through life bouncing off each other gently, innocuously, pleasantly.
But, friends, God calls us to so much deeper.
and some this morning you were sitting there
and though on the outside things look fine
there are issues of oppression and addictions and struggles
deep inside your soul you don't want anybody to know about
and I'm just here to say that I believe that God wants us
as we leave 2003, as we move into 2004
I believe that God wants us to rise to new places in health
as individuals before God
and to begin to be whole and let the Spirit of God minister to those broken places
that we've never let Him deal with at all.
Because we desire to be an authentic, real church community
with real relationships and real church family.
Relationships that grow us into the character of Jesus the Christ.
I'm excited this past year, years actually,
for developing and crystallizing our mission,
for beginning to bring together a structure
that helps us to do ministry
in a way that's responsive to needs more quickly.
We're getting healthy in our structure and our mission,
and now we need to bring health
to our very spirits and our souls.
This candle this morning is the candle of peace.
Jesus the Christ brings us peace
with God and with others around you
and with ourselves.
Jesus brings peace between us and God
with each other and within ourselves.
And some of you may not sense that peace
with him this morning.
You may not sense peace with others.
And you may not sense peace in yourself.
God broke the silence
by having John the Baptist speak in the desert,
in the place that represented an openness to the things of God.
And encouragement this morning is for us to break our silence
by letting God, letting the Holy Spirit come and touch the very deepest places
and begin a process of healing that we might be open and free
for the filling of the Spirit and the leading in our lives.
I want us to be the most filled up, Spirit-led, overflowingly gracious
and whole congregation anywhere in North Orange County
because we're open to the things of God.
So in a few moments, we're going to have an opportunity,
a time of worship and singing and of prayer.
And if you would be so bold and honest to come and receive prayer for healing,
for inner healing, for spiritual healing, for emotional healing,
for whatever it is, to begin to say,
Lord, I want to go into 2004 in a process of God stirring and healing
my soul that I'm going to invite you
to come. Our prayer team
will be here. This
is Advent. This is the preparation
for the coming of the
Lord. Let us not
hold on to things that hold us back
from real peace with Him, with
others, and with ourselves.
And others, I'm going to invite you to come
this morning. As John
Wimber wrote in that song
that I really enjoy and many of you do as well
called More Love and More
power. Perhaps you
just want more of God this
morning. You just want more of
His power and His love in your life.
Then you come and
receive prayer as well.
And we're going to pray the filling of the Holy Spirit
to fill you up and spill
right over the top that you
might be a witness
in Samaria and Judea and
the rest of the world. So if you want
more love and more power,
if you want healing, if you want
God's hand in your life, this morning is the time. This morning is the time. Friends, healing
doesn't happen overnight. It can, but not often. It can happen in stages, but it needs
to begin somewhere. We want us to go free into next year, to go into our final celebration
of the birth of the Lord, free to receive all that God wants to pour into your life,
ready to be used of God
in total freedom
the worship team is coming
we're going to be singing and meditating on these
ideas, the prayer team
is coming, in the bulletin we've
labeled this time, worship and ministry
because it's a time for us to
receive and give to the Lord
he is the audience
we want to give him our lives
all of us
allow his spirit to meet us there
