And that's the emphasis we're going to go with. And so this morning, we're going to begin with probably the toughest question of them all, and that is this. Why does evil exist at all?
Let me start off this series with a couple of quotes this morning. From George H. Smith, the atheist, he writes this.
Christian theism, he says, must be rejected by any person
with even a shred of respect for reason.
How does that make you feel if you're a believer?
And yet Patrick Glynn, an atheist turned Christian, wrote this.
Today it seems to me there is no good reason for an intelligent person
to embrace the illusion of atheism or agnosticism,
to make the same intellectual mistakes I made.
I wish I had known then what I know now.
Two completely different perspectives on this issue of truth and God
and the whole issues that were coming up in the coming weeks.
Our position, as we're going to see as we unfold this,
is that Christianity is a faith based on history
and is a faith that meets the intellectual, the spiritual,
and the emotional needs of human beings.
It has mystical elements to it.
Part of the Christian faith is a mystical experience, but it is also a reasonable, rational, intelligible faith.
And so we come to the first of eight classic challenges to the Christian faith.
And the first one this morning is what is classically determined as the problem of evil.
The reality of evil in the world, if God is supposed to be a good God.
Epicurus, an ancient philosopher, he wrote these words, and I share them with you.
He wrote, either God wants to abolish evil and cannot,
or he can but does not want to, or he cannot and does not want to.
If he wants to but cannot, he is impotent.
If he can and does not want to, he is wicked.
But if God both can and wants to abolish evil, then how comes evil in the world?
That's the question.
I would posit to say that we've all experienced evil in some way.
Whether it was the betrayal of a friend,
whether you were young,
or whether something in the business world.
We've all suffered in different ways.
We've had hurts and pains in different ways.
And then, of course, we can extrapolate and go further.
There are the big evils, like the Holocaust,
the killing fields of Cambodia,
the genocide in Rwanda.
Turn on ABC, CNN, or Fox News,
and you'll get to hear a litany of every night of evil
constantly dripping through your family room.
If God is loving and all-powerful and he is good,
then all this evil we seem to want to say should not exist.
And yet if we're honest, we know that it does.
How do you make sense out of this?
The answer that many come to is there simply is no God.
For obviously they say God would not allow evil to exist
if he had the power to stop it.
and if He indeed was truly a good God.
The other option is that God is indeed evil
or somehow malevolent.
That He takes some sick pleasure
in watching people suffer.
And then when people say that,
obviously He's not worthy of worship.
Or simply this, the third option,
is that God, He can't quite eradicate evil.
He's not quite able.
He's not quite in control of all things.
Some things are out of His control,
some would say.
And yet I'm going to say the biblical revelation says
that God is indeed good and all-powerful.
And I want to work from that position.
And some scriptures to back that up would be this.
Exodus chapter 34, verse 6.
The Bible says he passed in front of Moses
and said, I am the Lord, I am the Lord,
the merciful and the gracious God.
I am slow to anger and rich in unfailing love and faithfulness.
And the book of Nahum, perhaps not always read, but has this little gem.
Verse 7, the Lord is good.
When trouble comes, he is a strong refuge.
And he knows everyone who trusts in him.
That is just a sampling of myriad of verses that tell of the goodness of God.
There are verses that also talk about God's power.
Genesis 1.1, in the beginning, God created the heavens.
and the earth. I don't think there's anything more powerful than that verse to say that
God is powerful to create all that we experience, the heavens and the earth, God is responsible
for creating. In Jeremiah 32, I am the Lord, the God of all the peoples of the world. Is
anything too hard for me? As biblical Christians, we need to start with the assumption that
God is indeed good and all-powerful.
And that then brings us back to the question then, if that is true, then why does evil
exist?
Well, let's talk about evil for a few moments.
It's hard to describe exactly what it is.
We can all say we've experienced it, and yet what is it really?
So my first point this morning, I want to just touch on what is evil?
What is the nature of evil?
First of all, I want to say something about this,
that the very existence of evil
can actually be used to bolster the argument
that God exists.
Have you ever thought of it that way?
The mere fact that evil exists
can actually point to the fact that God exists.
And here's how it works.
We tend to have this outrage
at the presence of evil.
When we get angry at evil,
we are saying that there is something
that is different from evil that is good.
We're somehow saying if we're outraged at evil,
we're distinguishing it from what is good.
We're saying that evil and good both exist,
and yet they are separate.
And if that is true,
then what is the supreme standard
by which we make that determination?
How do we decide this is good and this is evil?
How do we get outraged at evil if there is no good?
And the question becomes,
where do we get the idea of that supreme good?
The supreme good, I would posit, is this.
We'll call him God.
It's God himself.
We're outraged at this notion of evil.
We rail against it.
We struggle with the reality.
But what is it?
Well, evil is not a substance.
It's not a thing.
It's not something you can easily grab your hands around.
It's not something that's created per se.
Evil can be thought of, and the classical theologians would concur,
that it's a lack of some good thing.
The Old Testament thinks of evil
in terms of the vandalism of shalom.
Shalom being goodness
and the way things ought to be.
Shalom is peace and harmony.
And yet evil distorts that.
It contorts it
and distorts what ought to be.
To borrow an idea from Dr. Cornelius Plantinga,
evil perverts, it pollutes,
and it disintegrates shalom.
I'm going to show you a clip in a moment.
It comes out of a film in the early 90s
called Grand Canyon.
Danny Glover and this one other character
are discussing this problem of evil
in a very practical way.
And I want you to hear the theologian, if you will,
Danny Glover, this morning, to show the scene.
You've got to answer one more thing for me
and you've got to tell me the truth.
Are you asking me a favor as a sign of respect?
Or are you asking me a favor because I've got the gun?
World ain't supposed to work. I mean, maybe you don't know that, but this ain't the way it's supposed to be.
I'm supposed to be able to do my job without asking you if I can't.
That dude is supposed to be able to wait with his car without you ripping him off.
Everything's supposed to be different than what it is.
Everything's supposed to be different than the way it is.
What he's saying there is very powerful and very profound.
that what's happening in this scenario
as he's coming to take the car away
to the shop and get it fixed
and these guys are gathering around the car
waiting to rip off the owner
he's saying this isn't the way it's supposed to be
that's straight out of Augustine's theology
coming out of Danny Glover in 1991
that's theology when you look for it in different places
it's a vandalism of shalom
it's a vandalism of the way things are supposed to be
that's evil
Some would ask me, though, what about catastrophes on our planet?
Are those evil?
What about a tornado that rips through a town
or a hailstorm that decimates a car and wipes out a neighborhood?
What about those kinds of things,
a cloudburst that tears apart a boat or something?
What about those? Those are evil.
And I want to say to those kinds of things
that weather disasters are really a result of being on a planet
that's rotating, that is tipped at 23 degrees,
that has interactions of water and heat and storms.
That's a result of the physics of our planet.
The issue is those things are neutral in and of themselves.
We interpret them as evil when human beings are hurt in some way
as they encounter those experiences.
But they're not necessarily evil in and of themselves.
It's a matter of how we interpret the event.
Can those things be sad? Absolutely.
But physics and chemistry has taken over.
Are those gut-wrenching?
They can be very gut-wrenching.
But are they truly evil?
If we acknowledge that evil and good exists,
and that evil is a privation of the good,
then where does evil come from?
That's my second point.
I want to talk about for a moment the origin of evil.
The origin of evil.
As we do this, I want to come back to these five basic fundamental concepts,
and we've listed them for you.
Christians believe in these five things.
Number one, that God exists.
if God exists.
Number two, we affirm that God is all good.
We would also want to affirm, number three,
that God is all powerful.
And number four, that He's all wise.
We also have to affirm that evil does exist.
And the challenge is, well, how do all five of those
coexist together?
And as I've already mentioned, different religions
and philosophical systems have tried numerous ways
to work through those five points.
Eastern religions will deny that evil is real at all.
They'll say it's all inside your mind.
Evil doesn't really exist.
Some go so far as to say that pain doesn't really exist.
It's all simply in the mind.
Others claim that God is not good.
Others would say that God is not all-powerful.
That famous book that came out by Rabbi Kushner a while back,
Bad Things Happen to Good People,
his conclusion is that somehow God is not quite able to take care of evil.
He's not quite in control.
Yet the Bible affirms something different.
So how do Christians maintain these five statements and make them not contradictory?
If God is the creator of everything, doesn't that make God the author of evil?
Dr. Peter Kreeft of Boston College makes this comment.
And I'm going to quote a number of great theologians and professors here
because they say it so much better than I ever could,
and I want to give you the richness that comes from their minds.
Dr. Peter Kreeft says, regarding God being all-powerful,
that means he can do everything that is meaningful,
everything that is possible,
everything that makes any sense at all.
But God cannot make himself to cease to exist.
He cannot make good evil.
There are certain things that don't make sense at all.
Can God create a rock so heavy that he can't lift it?
I mean, these are silly statements.
They don't make any sense.
They make sense in the English language,
but they have no basis in reality.
Now listen to this.
God chose to create human beings with a free will.
It is up to them rather than to God
as to whether there was sin or not in the world.
That's the nature of free will.
Free will is when you have choices to make
and when you choose the opposite of the good,
evil enters into that.
God makes human beings,
and by creating them with the opportunity
to choose evil.
God has created the possibility of evil,
but it is human beings that set evil in motion.
It is human beings who do wrong.
Norman Geisler said it this way,
God created the fact of freedom
and man performs the acts of freedom.
God made evil possible.
Creatures make it actual.
If God had not allowed us to choose evil,
if God had created us in such a way
that we could not truly sin or to go wrong.
We would cease to be human beings.
How many of you saw Steven Spielberg's film this summer,
Artificial Intelligence?
Nobody.
I saw it.
Two of you.
Well, let me tell you what happens.
The plot is simply this.
It's the future not too far away,
and they make a little boy,
beautiful little robot automaton boy.
And the whole struggle in the film is
as he has some kind of conscious awareness,
He's trying to find out what it means to be human.
It's a play on the whole Pinocchio theme all over again, set into the future.
But the striking thing is this, no matter how cute and how well programmed this little robot is,
he truly is not human.
He truly is not able to fully choose in his own free will.
He's programmed by the programmers to do certain behaviors.
And he's charming and he's cute, and if you see the film, he never blinks his eyes,
and it's interesting how they do that.
but he's not truly human
because he cannot truly choose
and he does not have the capacity
to truly love.
He's programmed to search after mother.
He's programmed to have certain behaviors
that we think are cute and cuddly
and all those things
but he's really not choosing to love
out of himself as a person
because he's not a person
and that's the distinction
between robots and human beings
and God saw fit to make us human beings,
truly able to love and to choose.
But in so doing, we can choose to not love and to do evil.
Evil then comes from choices,
to abandon the good in the right way.
In that sense, evil is our problem, not God's problem.
God is not the author of evil.
We are the author of evil in the misuse of our free will.
Number three, I want to cover the purpose of evil.
You may never have thought about evil
in terms of having a purpose.
Peter Kreeft again asks this question.
How can a mere finite human being
be sure that infinite wisdom
would not tolerate certain short-range evils
for more long-range goods
that we cannot foresee?
Let me say that again.
How can we as finite minds
be sure that a God of infinite wisdom
would not tolerate certain short-range evils
in order for more long-range goods
that we can't see?
How do we know that isn't happening?
We can't prove it, but I think we can say
we don't know.
We don't know.
And now we're tapping into the realm of God's goodness
and His perfect knowledge.
If God is truly all-wise and He knows all things,
He knows the present and the future and the past.
For time is just one dimension of our universe
and we're arguing that God is outside of space and time.
Then is it not possible that He can see the whole big picture
and would tolerate certain short-term evils
for long-term goods.
You see, our minds can't fathom yet
an infinite mind of God.
Dr. Norman Geisler says this,
we do know some good purposes for evil,
to warn us of greater evil,
to keep us from self-destruction,
to help bring about greater goods
and to defeat evil.
If a finite mind can discover
some good purpose for evil,
surely an infinite good and wise God
has a good purpose for all suffering.
So what's the definition of good?
Does good mean the absence of pain or suffering?
On the surface, we want to say yes,
but the more I've thought about it and read about it,
I don't think so.
The other day, Mario Sensei is not here.
He's at a tournament this morning.
But Sensei Mario in our karate ministry
was really working us very hard.
In fact, let's be honest,
he had me absolutely dripping
and about ready to collapse on the floor after the workout.
I mean, he pushed me in places I had never known that I could go.
He stretched my muscles and made me do things in contortant ways I never knew I could go.
He pushed us.
And I'll tell you, I was in great pain.
And when I limped out of here to my car, I mean, I hobbled down the steps and got home
and collapsed when I got home.
I was in great pain.
But was that an evil?
In fact, that pain was actually making me better at a sport that I had committed to.
Some pains can push us to good things.
Oh, that's a blue button.
What do you know?
I'm really preaching now.
Dr. Kreeft says this.
Dentists, athletes, trainers, teachers, parents,
they all know that sometimes to be good
is not to be kind.
Certainly there are times when God allows suffering
and deprives us of the lesser good of pleasure
in order to help us toward the greater good
of moral and spiritual education.
Sometimes pain teaches us things and pushes us to greater goods and to greater heights.
I read this week about, in Dr. Paul Brand's book called The Gift of Pain,
he was a physician and spent a lot of time in India.
And as he's working on people with leprosy, he's talking about the gift of pain.
And what's intriguing is the beginning of the book starts off with this little girl
that has this genetic deformity where she cannot feel pain at all.
When she's swat on the behind from mom and dad, it tickles.
When she sticks a pin into her thumb, she feels no pain.
And they call her, over time, a monster.
Because this little child does not know when she is hurting herself.
And when she bumps things and steps on things and things lodge into her feet,
she has no sensation of the pain.
And as the years go on, she's literally losing her fingers and her face
because she destroys herself and does not know it.
Pain does not prevent her from doing certain things
and entering into places.
She could stick her hand in the fire and burn her hand off,
and it would not feel the pain.
By 14, she had lost both legs and most of her fingers.
And Dr. Brand is suggesting that pain is and can be a gift to us,
for it prevents us from harming ourselves in grander ways
and protects us.
Emotional pain also does something similar.
See, emotional pain will point to something that's wrong.
Emotional pain is a signal that something is wrong and needs to be dealt with.
When we insulate ourselves with emotional pain, we do damage to our souls and to our minds.
But we don't deal with the real problem.
And so to speak, we stay sick.
We don't grow through an issue.
We only avoid it.
If we anesthetize ourselves through alcohol and drugs and pornography and all these sorts of things,
we never deal with the emotional pain in our lives.
We never grow and expand and become healthy.
We just stay numb and sick and stuck.
And so you see, emotional pain can actually push us and grow.
And is that not good?
As I said before, God is not ultimately interested in our comfort, but in our character.
The Apostle Paul writes this in Romans chapter 5.
Therefore, since we have been made right in God's sight by faith,
we have peace with God because of what Jesus Christ, our Lord, has done for us.
Because of our faith, Christ has brought us to this place of highest privilege
where we now stand and we confidently and joyfully look forward to sharing God's glory.
We can rejoice, too, when we run into problems and trials,
for we know that they are good for us.
They help us to learn to endure, and endurance develops strength of character in us.
And character strengthens our confident expectation of salvation.
And this expectation will not disappoint us, for we know how dearly God loves us
because he has given us the Holy Spirit to fill our hearts with his love.
Think about this.
Even Jesus, God's own Son,
was not immune from suffering while on this earth.
Hebrews 5.8 says,
So even though Jesus was God's Son,
He learned obedience from the things that He suffered.
Even God's own Son was not immune
from the pain of living on this earth.
If Jesus was not exempt,
why do we think we should be exempt as well?
One question that gets raised is this.
Why doesn't God intervene now
and deal with all the evil right now?
I think, frankly, if God were to come
and deal with evil right now,
the world would simply be over.
The evil in my heart would be purged out.
The evil in your heart would be purged.
And quite frankly, we'd all be gone.
It would all be over.
It would all be done.
History would be over.
Is that what we truly want?
2 Peter 3 says this.
The Lord isn't really being slow
about His promise to return.
as some people think.
No, he's being patient for your sake.
He does not want anyone to perish.
So he is giving more time for everyone to repent.
But the day of the Lord will come
as unexpectedly as a thief.
And the heavens will pass away with a terrible noise.
And everything in them will disappear in fire.
And the earth and everything on it
will be exposed to judgment.
God will deal with injustice and with evil
at the right time.
And he is waiting for that judgment so that others may still come and know him
before he finally deals completely with evil.
But still, Kirk, good people suffer. Why?
Another question. Are we really that good?
We all bear the stain of sin.
In God's eyes, we're all sinful creatures worthy of destruction.
Sometimes pain is what it takes to wake us up and to bring us back to God himself.
Where we can then repent and find forgiveness.
C.S. Lewis said in a very famous phrase,
and I put it up here for you,
God whispers to us in our pleasures,
speaks to us in our conscience,
but he shouts in our pains.
It's his megaphone to rouse a deaf world.
Where is God in the midst of pain, we ask?
And we ask that question,
somehow we're saying that God somehow does not feel pain,
that he's somehow removed from our plight,
from our situation.
But precisely the opposite is the case,
For instead of abandoning the world of pain, God embraced it and entered into it.
In Jesus Christ, God entered into this world, our four-dimensional space-time,
and felt and experiences the reality that we all experience, and part of that is pain.
Jesus faced the realities of life in Palestine 2,000 years ago.
Jesus was hungry and thirsty and tired.
Jesus faced loneliness and betrayal and the agonizing death of friends.
He wept over the death of Lazarus.
He understood what it meant to lose somebody to death.
And then he faced the shame and the humiliation of a false trial,
of beating with fists the lacerations of a cat o' nine tails on his back,
and then ultimately he died the shameful death on a Roman cross,
which is simply the instrument of capital punishment of the day.
Friends, God is not immune to pain.
and God used that pain and death of his son
for our good
that we might be forgiven our moral debts
towards God.
One more thought on this subject.
There is something I want to say boldly about suffering
that actually draws Christians closer to God
in the long run
and the question becomes
is that not ultimately good?
You might think that those who suffer
would be driven from God
and to some people that can happen.
But as you spend more time with people, you realize that sometimes and often that pain and suffering can actually drive us to God more powerfully than anything else.
And you find that people who have suffered, there's a richness in their life, there's a depth of their spirit with God that those who have not suffered much simply do not share.
And is that not ultimately good?
To bring some perspective on this, I want to take a look at the life of the most famous sufferer, the biblical character Job.
We looked at a contemporary version of his life.
I want to go back into the Old Testament.
The book of Job is possibly the oldest book in the Bible,
but it reads as if it were written yesterday.
It tackles the great problem of suffering.
But the book of Job is also about faith in its purest form.
In the midst of calamity and confusion,
we see his faith holding on by the fingernails.
The quick summary of Job is this.
The greatest man in all the East lost, very quickly, 7,000 sheep.
3,000 camels, 5,000 oxen, 500 donkeys, and numerous servants.
Then, on top of that, all of Job's children,
seven sons and three daughters,
died in a mysterious and mighty gust of wind.
And then his health finally fails,
and he's got sores that break out all over his body, head to foot.
Job went from being on top to being on the bottom,
just like that, overnight, immediately.
A man had the world in his hands,
who's now on the bottom, to be truly pitied.
But what Job doesn't know is that whole predicament gets started over a type of wager, so to speak, between God and Satan.
The issue is, does Job really love God because of the blessings of God, or does he truly love Him from his soul?
And once the calamities hit, Job prods him. Job's wife, rather, prods him to simply curse God and die.
But Job refuses.
And for the next 35 chapters of that book,
Job and his friends try to make sense out of his predicament.
They try and figure out what has he done to deserve all of this.
And they wrestle with how can there be so much suffering if God is truly up there.
But what they don't know is the first two chapters give this inside look.
They give the curtain pulling aside and we see that God is up to something far larger than what Job can perceive.
God has a purpose and a plan far grander and larger
than Job's experience inside our four-dimensional time-space.
And what we learn from Job is this, amongst many other things,
is that faith matters in the spiritual world.
That faith matters in God's realm.
There are many great themes going on outside of our perception.
As we've said earlier, there can be purposes for evil,
purposes for a greater good
that God in his ultimate power
and knowledge and wisdom can see
but that we don't see.
Friends, there are things going on in the spiritual realm
that we have no idea about
but it doesn't mean that they are not there
and don't exist.
The book of Job wraps up like this.
After all of Job's laments
and all of his questions,
God finally in chapter 38
finally answers and here's what he says.
And the Lord answered Job from the whirlwind.
After 35 chapters of complaining, here it comes.
Who is this, says God, that questions my wisdom with such ignorant words?
Brace yourself, because I have some questions for you, and you must answer them.
Where were you when I laid the foundations of the earth?
Tell me if you know so much.
And then he goes on, and he tells about his miracles, about creation, about the animals and the beasts,
and all of these marvelous things that God has created.
And then in Job 42, Job finally replies to the Lord,
I know that you can do anything and no one can stop you.
You ask, who is this that questions my wisdom with such ignorance?
It is I.
And I was talking about things I did not understand,
things far too wonderful for me.
You said, listen and I will speak.
I have some questions for you and you must answer them.
I had heard about you before, but now I've seen you with my own eyes.
I take back everything I said.
I sit in dust and ashes to show my repentance.
From Job's perspective,
God does not seem to be all-powerful
because all of these awful things are happening to Job.
And yet God defends himself by describing
that he's the creator of all things,
that he is indeed in control and is all-powerful.
And at the end of the book, Job realizes that and says,
I'm sorry, I take it all back.
you are God and I am not.
At the end of the book of Job,
the intriguing thing for us is this.
As the reader of the book,
no matter all the question of the whys of the suffering
and all the issues about is God fair or not,
the book of Job does this.
It simply deflects the question
and focuses on our response.
It doesn't go into all the whys of the calamity.
It simply talks now about what is your response to God.
Philip Yancey, in his book, Disappointment with God, said this.
At the end, when he heard the voice from the whirlwind, Job finally attained that faith.
God reeled off natural phenomena, the solar system, constellations, thunderstorms, wild animals,
and Job could not begin to explain, if you can't comprehend the visible world you live in,
how dare you expect to comprehend a world that you cannot even see.
And conscious of that big picture,
Job in the end repents in dust and ashes.
Remember what Peter Kreef said,
how can a finite mind be sure that infinite wisdom
would not tolerate certain short-range evils
in order for more long-range goods
that we simply can't foresee?
I quote Philip Yancey again.
Very often, disappointment with God
begins in Job-like circumstances.
The death of a child, a tragic accident,
a loss of a job. These all can bring on the questions that Job asks. Why me? What does God
have against me? Why does he seem so distant? And as readers of Job's story, we can see behind the
curtain to a context being waged in the invisible world. But in our own trials, we don't have that
insight. We can't see into realms that are not open to us. When tragedy strikes, we're going to
live in the shadow, unaware of what is transpiring in the unseen world. The drama that Job lived out
will then replicate itself in our individual lives. And once again, God will let his reputation ride
on the response of unpredictable human beings. Friends, we see the physical world as real
and the unseen world as somehow unreal. Perhaps it is more the other way around.
Perhaps, really, reality is in a realm that we cannot perceive,
and this is real but less real in the spiritual realm that God inhabits
and where things are going on that we cannot see.
Peter Kreeft finally concludes and says,
God didn't let Job suffer because he lacked love,
but because he did love.
In order to bring Job to the point of encountering God face to face,
which is humanity's supreme happiness,
Job's suffering hollowed out a big space in him
so that God and joy could fill it.
Let's review for a moment.
Christians believe five things.
God exists.
God is all good.
God is all powerful.
He's all wise.
And that evil does exist.
Can you now begin to at least be open to see
how those beliefs are still held together.
The highest good that God has determined
is that free creatures, human beings,
created in freedom to choose God and to love Him,
even if that means that evil is a potential reality
that can be exercised.
And God can even use that for higher purposes.
Finally, friends, the answer to suffering
is not a philosophical answer.
The answer to suffering is not really contorting our minds
in different ways to understand it.
The answer to suffering ultimately is a person,
and it's the person of Jesus Christ.
God come in humanity to actually experience
and embrace our suffering.
I finish with this quote from John Stott,
one of the greatest contemporary theologians
and statesmen in the Christian church today,
and he says this,
and I've put it up here for you to read with me.
I could never myself believe in God
if it were not for the cross.
In the real world of pain,
how could one worship a God who is immune to it?
I have entered many Buddhist temples
in different Asian countries
and stood respectfully before the Buddha,
his legs crossed, his arms folded,
his eyes closed,
the ghost of a smile playing round his mouth,
a remote look on his face,
detached from the agonies of the world.
But each time, after a while,
I've had to turn away he writes
and in imagination I've turned
instead to that lonely twisted
tortured figure on the cross
nails through hands and feet
back lacerated
limbs wrenched brow bleeding
and thorn pricks mouth dry
and intolerably thirsty
plunged in God forsaken
darkness that is the
God for me he laid
aside his immunity to pain
he entered our world of flesh and
blood, tears, and death. He suffered for us, and our sufferings become more manageable in light of
his. There is still a question mark against human suffering, but over it we boldly stamp another
mark, the cross, which symbolized divine suffering. The cross of Christ is God's only self-justification
in such a world as ours.
Father in heaven,
these are heavy things.
And Father, we still don't always understand
suffering and how to deal with it.
