Good morning. Welcome. I appreciate you being here on a holiday weekend as this. I hope it's been fun and relaxing. It will continue to be as of tomorrow.
But I also have to announce one more meeting. This is kind of one of those quick things that has to happen.
But I want to call a quick council meeting after the second service, after the Sunday school hour, to discuss again this property across the street.
And so for those who are on our administrative council, probably a 15-20 minute meeting.
I'd like for Jay Kramer, if you'd come, and also Ron Stevens, just for a few minutes, if we can do that, just to get a report back on what's doing over there.
Well, it's a pleasure to begin, like I said, the unofficial end of summer.
Can you believe it? We're already into fall.
David Paye is already talking about Christmas music. I'm not quite ready to talk about that.
But that's how fast things roll. Here we go.
As you know, and maybe you haven't heard, I want to share, I'm starting a new series next week.
And it's important that we be able to share effectively and defend the faith in the face of questions that are difficult.
Sometimes even for believers, we may believe and have experience with Christ,
and yet there's still these lingering questions that have never been really adequately dealt with or answered.
And so that's our challenge this fall.
For the next eight weeks starting next week, we're going to do a series called Tough Questions and Honest Answers.
And we're basing it out of Lee Strobel's book,
the author who is speaking in just a couple weeks,
over at Biola.
If you want to get kind of an intro to that series,
go to that lecture, read the book, The Case for Faith,
and we're going to be exploring those issues
from a biblical and philosophical standpoint
and really defending what about these tough issues.
Why is there suffering and evil?
What about all the deaths of all the people in the Old Testament
that really put off people?
How can God be loving?
and still there's all this carnage.
That's a tough question.
What about science and miracles?
Are those contradictory?
And all those kinds of issues.
We're going to talk biblically through each one.
I invite you to come.
This will be a bring your friend kind of series.
You've got friends ask you hard questions
and you're not sure?
Say, I don't know, but come and hear my pastor
and he's going to try and answer those.
And so you bring them the next eight weeks.
I guarantee it will be a stimulating
and thought-provoking time.
We look forward to having you as part of that.
Well, as we now jump into this message on communion, we talked last week about the power
of symbols.
We talked about how in a symbol it can point to a deep reality that is difficult perhaps
to communicate in words, but the symbol itself can touch our souls in deep and powerful places.
And so I want to touch on the Lord's Supper, like we talked about baptism the previous
week. In taking the Lord's Supper, which we're going to do
after this message, there's a symbolic action that really
cuts to the heart of the Gospel, and the Lord can teach us
and minister to us through the taking of these elements.
As we talked about last week, baptism is a once-for-all
experience that kind of marks our entering into new life with
Jesus. But the Lord's Supper, the communion meal,
instead is an ongoing experience
that we partake in on a regular basis.
And it really talks about the sustaining of our life in Christ.
Baptism is kind of the entrance symbolically,
but communion is the ongoing nurture
and sustaining of that relationship.
I'd like to draw your attention this morning
to a classic text on this topic of communion in the Lord's Supper.
It's found in 1 Corinthians 11.
It will be on the screen, a number of screens. We're going to read it.
If you'd like to turn your Bibles, feel free to do so as well.
1 Corinthians 11, starting in verse 17.
The Word of God says,
But now when I mention this next issue, Paul writes,
I cannot praise you, for it sounds as if more harm than good is done when you meet together.
First of all, I hear there are divisions among you when you meet as a church.
And to some extent, he says, I believe it.
But of course, there must be divisions among you
so that those of you who are right will be recognized.
It's not the Lord's Supper you're concerned about
when you come together.
For I'm told that some of you hurry to eat your own meal
without sharing with others.
As a result, some go hungry while others get drunk.
What? Is this really true?
Don't you have your own homes for eating and drinking?
or do you really want to disgrace the church of God
and shame the poor?
What am I supposed to say about these things?
Do you want me to praise you?
Well, I certainly do not.
For this is what the Lord himself said,
and I pass it on to you just as I received it.
On the night when he was betrayed,
the Lord Jesus took a loaf of bread
and when he had given thanks,
he broke it and said,
this is my body which is given for you.
Do this in remembrance of me.
In the same way, he took the cup of wine after supper, saying,
This cup is the new covenant between God and you,
sealed by the shedding of my blood.
Do this in remembrance of me, as often as you drink it.
For every time you eat this bread and drink this cup,
you are announcing the Lord's death until he comes.
And then he goes on.
So if anyone eats this bread or drinks this cup of the Lord unworthily,
That person is guilty of sinning against the body and the blood of our Lord.
That is why you should examine yourself before eating the bread and drinking from the cup.
For if you eat the bread or drink the cup unworthily, not honoring the body of Christ,
you are eating and drinking God's judgment upon yourself.
That is why many of you are weak and sick, and some have even died.
But if we examine ourselves, we will not be examined by God and judged in this way.
But when we are judged and disciplined by the Lord, we will not be condemned with the world.
So, dear brothers and sisters, when you gather for the Lord's Supper, wait for each other.
And if you are really hungry, eat at home so you won't bring judgment upon yourselves when you meet together.
I'll give you instructions about the other matters after I arrive.
To understand this text on communion, we've got to unpack this passage a little bit.
I want to get into the background for a moment.
So as we read this other person's mail, we're going to understand it more deeply.
Paul is writing, as you may have gathered, to a church that had divisions.
That sounds like most churches I know in America, which is kind of sad,
but there's some deeper, really rife issues in this church.
And one in particular that Paul really is upset about
is this issue between the rich Christians and the poor Christians
and how they were coming together and how those distinctions were exaggerated
and aggravated. The bottom line was that the minority of the
wealthy believers, including the financial big backers of this
young church, were gathering in the homes of those who could
afford homes. And they had the resources and the time to come
early to these festive meals. They had the opportunity to bring more
sensuous and temptuous and all those wonderful goodies. They could bring far
greater offerings of food to the gathering. Those who
came early, could enjoy gathering together in the private dining room. But the latecomers,
those who had to work in the various places, and by the way, they didn't have OSHA, they
didn't have the weekends off. I mean, when they got off work, which was every day, they
finally could make it to the gathering. And they would come and they would be forced to
sit in the atrium, kind of out in the other room. In the context of a meal that's supposed
to be about unity. There were divisions along socioeconomic
lines. When the story gets worse, as you infer from
what Paul is saying, not only do they sit in separate rooms and we're not being
united, but the potluck people were gorging themselves
and the bottom line was some were getting drunk at the communion time.
Now realize this. Now Paul is not objecting to having a nice
place to meet. He's not objecting to bringing wonderful delectables
to dine on together.
But what he's angry at and frustrated
are these divisions between the rich and the poor
and the aggravation of those issues.
And he's saying basically these are inappropriate.
This is not how we celebrate the Lord's meal together.
And so I want us to understand those tensions as a background.
As we get into this passage, you'll see how they play out.
So with that in the back of our minds,
the first question I want to say is,
well, what is the Lord's Supper?
What is the Lord's Supper?
First of all, it is a simple act.
The Lord's Supper is a simple act.
It's not an elaborate ceremony.
Notice how Paul documents what Jesus did when he first institutes this meal for us.
It says in 1 Corinthians 11, verse 23,
On the night he was betrayed, the Lord Jesus took a loaf of bread.
A common, everyday part of their meal together,
he took the loaf of bread.
Jesus was celebrating the Passover meal with his disciples.
During the Passover meal, just to give you some background,
the Jews ate unleavened bread to recall their departure out of Egypt.
They're celebrating God's deliverance of the people from slavery in Egypt.
And the Passover was the experience of commemorating and remembering that historical event.
And as was customary in doing that,
The head of the household would stand and take the bread and talk about it and break it and so forth
and distribute it as part of that celebration of the Exodus event.
So Jesus, as head of the disciples, head leader and teacher of this band of followers,
he stands and he divides the bread.
But then Jesus gives new meaning to the bread.
And so my second point is this,
that the communion meal is a reminder,
it's a memory tool.
Notice in 1 Corinthians now in verse 24, chapter 11,
And when he had given thanks, he broke it and he said,
This is my body which is given for you.
Do this in remembrance of me.
The same bread that was symbolic of the unleavened bread
that the Israelites ate on the way out of Egypt
is now by Jesus being designated as kind of a sacrificial body.
You see, in the Old Testament, under the sacrificial system,
the animal victim of sacrifice was laid on the altar
and the blood was poured out.
The death of the animal was to take away the sin of the people.
And now Jesus is beginning to bring that system into this meal
and re-designating these elements.
Notice in Isaiah 53, Jesus alludes to this passage.
I will give him the honors of one who is mighty and great,
because he exposed himself to death.
He was counted among those who were sinners.
He bore the sins of many, and he interceded for sinners.
Isaiah 53 is a passage about the suffering servant
that would take away the sins of the people,
and Jesus is alluding now to that passage
coming into being through Jesus himself.
Jesus' body was going to be given
for those who were eating at that table.
Jesus' body is being given up
for all those who would follow.
And as part of that ritual, Jesus says,
do this in remembrance of me.
And so we take that to realize
that Jesus is saying to us,
this meal, this celebration, this event
is to take place over and over
as a frequent experience
that we might remember what happened.
So number two, it's a reminder.
It's a memory tool.
And number three, communion, it's a symbol.
In verse 25, he continues,
in the same way he took the cup of wine after supper,
and he's saying,
this cup is the new covenant between God and you,
sealed by the shedding of my blood.
Do this in remembrance of me as often as you drink it.
When Jesus is talking about the bread,
when Jesus is talking about the wine and the cup,
the disciples would not have thought then
that he was somehow saying that this bread or this cup
was literally Jesus' body.
They would see him as making an analogy,
a representation of his coming bodily death.
And I want to also point out the symbolism behind the cup.
You notice that Jesus doesn't say necessarily this wine.
He talks about this cup as he's grabbing some kind of chalice.
But see, the word cup is used over and over in the Old Testament
to refer to wrath that God is going to pour out.
Example 51.7, 17 in Isaiah.
Awake, awake, rise, O Jerusalem,
you who have drunk from the hand of the Lord
the cup of his wrath,
you who have drained to its dregs
the goblet that makes men stagger.
You see, Jesus pointing to the cup
and pointing to the fact that he
would be taking on the wrath of God
that we deserve.
When he talks about the covenant
and the shedding of blood.
Jesus making an allusion to Exodus 24,
whereby in this old covenant where God is saying,
you will be my people and I will be your God, essentially,
and that the people are going to do these things
to be in a covenant community with God,
that the blood was sprinkled on the people.
Notice Exodus chapter 24.
And Moses took the book of the covenant
and read it to the people.
And they all responded again.
We will do everything the Lord has commanded.
we will obey.
And then Moses sprinkled the blood from the basins
over the people and he said,
this blood confirms the covenant of the Lord
is made with you in giving you these laws.
Symbolic language Jesus uses
to communicate the great truths
about his upcoming passion,
about his going to the cross,
about his becoming the sacrificial lamb
for all of us once and for all.
And the wine of the cup
signifying Jesus' blood being poured out
for the new covenant.
The new covenant, like the old covenant with Israel,
is not a contract between two equal parties,
but it's an offer made by God to human beings,
people that could not save themselves.
It's an offer of pardon.
It's an offer of power.
It's an offer that we can only freely accept
with gratitude and with faith.
And my next point, number four, is communion then.
is a statement of faith.
Moving on now in verse 26,
Paul continues to write that Jesus said,
For every time you eat this bread and drink this cup,
you are announcing the Lord's death until he comes.
You see, communion, this celebration we're about to take,
is not simply a memorial meal of Jesus' last supper.
It's not just a remembrance of the Lord's death
for the sake of our remembering a painful historical event.
Instead, communion is a remembrance
and a remembering of what Jesus' death does for us,
for now, and for our future.
You see, there's a future.
There's an end times reality to the Lord's Supper.
For we Christians, we have not arrived yet.
We're not done being made and shaped by the Holy Spirit.
We're not ready yet to meet our Lord face to face.
but he's making us ready.
And the communion meal points to the reality
that we will one day see Jesus face to face forever.
That is our hope.
Because of what happened at the cross,
we'll be with God forever.
It's a statement of faith.
Now I want to move into this dimension of,
well then, who should take the Lord's Supper?
My second major point.
Who should take this meal?
I've noticed in the scriptures that Jesus had this meal.
Not with all the crowds that followed him.
There were many crowds that followed Jesus.
But the disciples were the one that got to partake of communion with Jesus.
I see Jesus having communion with those that were intimate with him.
He gave it to his intimate believers.
And I discern from the text that the communion meal is really designated for those
who are professing Christians, who are saying,
Yes, Jesus is my Lord. He is my Savior.
and I am following him.
I am a disciple and he is my Lord.
The great New Testament scholar Craig Blomberg
out of Denver Seminary writes these powerful words
in commenting on this text.
He says, all repentant sinners are welcome,
referring to the Lord's table,
no matter how far away from God they may recently have felt.
All professing believers who are unprepared
to give generously, though, of their wealth
to help the poor in the midst
or who treat the people of lower classes
as second citizens or simply remained unreconciled
should refrain from the meal.
All repentant sinners may come to the meal.
All repentant sinners.
I also want to point out that
whether you come from a different tradition,
sometimes I'll say it rather colloquially,
what franchise of the church are you coming from?
Because we're all one united body,
different denominations, different traditions
that emphasize different practices.
But the bottom line is,
if we're professing Jesus as Lord and Savior,
we are the one body of Christ.
If you're coming from a different tradition
and you are in our service and we're having communion,
you are welcome if you profess Jesus Christ
as Lord and as Savior.
Does one need to be baptized to receive communion?
I don't see that from the text.
I see baptism as simply expressing
what has already happened in your life.
And it's an obedience issue
and you should be baptized.
But is it a precursor?
I can't make that connection necessarily.
Some traditions make that part of the process.
I would like to say that if children
who understand who Jesus is
and are, yes, saying they are following,
they may take communion.
If they have not been baptized yet,
I'm still open to them partaking of that experience,
though I want them to be baptized.
We've talked about the who.
Let's talk about the how.
As we said before, Jesus says, do this in remembrance of me.
The connotation there is that this experience is an ongoing kind of meal that we would take over and over.
But it's interesting, he never did say particularly how we're to celebrate the Lord's Supper.
There are no instructions other than what happened historically there.
Now this church, we partake of this experience roughly one time per month on the first Sunday of the month
as a way of making it a special occasion
but still regular enough
that it's part of our worship year
on an ongoing basis.
And you'll notice in the text
there's no prescription for the form of communion.
One loaf of bread is accurate.
Unleavened bread that we use in cracker form
grabs on the imagery of the unleavened bread
coming out of Egypt.
Little cups are fine.
A big goblet is fine.
Different traditions will do it in different ways.
But I think an interesting issue does come up here.
And I want to bring out verses 27 to 29.
Again, chapter 11.
So if anyone eats this bread or drinks this cup of the Lord unworthily,
that person is guilty of sinning against the body and the blood of the Lord.
That is why you should examine yourself before eating the bread and drinking from the cup.
For if you eat the bread or drink the cup unworthily, not honoring the body of Christ,
you are eating and drinking God's judgment upon yourself.
And then he says, that's why many of you are weak and sick.
And some of you even died.
I want to come to this difficult word, unworthily.
What does he mean by that?
The New International Version of the New American Standard Bible
translated in an unworthy manner.
What is Paul saying?
And the reason I make a lot about this particular word
is because many have taken the reference there
to mean that if we are not absolutely right with the Lord,
if you have not made sure that every sin has been confessed and purged out of your life,
perhaps from that day or that week or that last month,
then somehow you are not worthy to take the Lord's Supper.
And many have come and have not taken because of this issue of unworthily,
and they feel unworthy to partake.
But as I get into this text, and you get into the context of this text,
and you look at the grammar, I don't see unworthy used in that manner.
Remember again, Paul is writing to people
who are using the Lord's Supper
as a way to divide the church amongst rich and poor.
Remember that they're gorging themselves at the meal.
Some are getting drunk at the meal.
It's a very different context
in which we celebrate it today.
But in that context,
instead of Paul attacking the person's character
or sin issues,
He's attacking their behavior towards other believers in their body.
He's challenging their socioeconomic aggravation of those issues.
They ate the meal in an unworthy manner.
They ate the meal in contradistinction to how Jesus wants to be celebrated in unity.
They're exasperating the differences.
And they're eating in an unworthy manner.
What they're doing contradicts what Jesus is trying to communicate
and what he did on the cross in bringing unity to believers.
We're all one family.
They were dividing the family.
Examine here, the literal word has the idea of test and find approved.
If their behavior towards their fellow Christians is appropriate,
then they are qualified to come and partake of the meal.
This is not one of those ultra-pietistic,
I've got to figure out how my soul is doing every moment.
The issue is, are their actions and attitude towards others consistent with the reality of the body of Christ?
That's the issue in this text.
And if they are not, if they're holding bitterness towards the poor Christians,
or the poorer Christians are holding bitterness towards the rich Christians,
if there's bitterness and there's angst and anger and all those things,
then they are guilty of the body and the blood.
it. They, in a sense, are sinning, and that kind of sin is what's liable for Jesus' death. I see
communion, friends, as a reminder of the reality of Jesus' death and the hope that we have in new
life that it points to. And if a person is a Christian, and yet that person has some sin in
their life, they're struggling with something, or perhaps they've made a gross error that morning
of that week in God's eyes. I want them to take communion. I want them to come back as a reminder,
a memory tool. This is what reality is. And I want them to repent of that experience, of course,
but we're already all unworthy to take because of our sin anyway. I don't want the communion meal
to be missed because of sin. I want the communion meal to convince and challenge and reorient their
lives, that they may not sin anymore. It's a way for people to come and get a grip again
on their faith, on the commitments they've made to follow Christ. I want them to take
communion. I want it to be a reorienting of their soul. Verse 29, for if you eat the bread
or drink the cup unworthily, not honoring the body of Christ, you're eating and drinking
God's judgment upon yourself. He says not honoring the body of Christ. Body. What does
you mean by that? I think, and most contemporary scholars today look at this, when he says
body there in verse 29, he is referring to the corporate body of Christ. Not necessarily
to Jesus' body, but referring to the body of Christ, the church. Those who eat and drink
in flagrant disregard for the body of Christ and its unity, they are the ones incurring
the risk of judgment from God. I like how the CEV, Contemporary English Version, puts
this. Would you show that version, please?
Verse 29. If you
fail to understand, it says,
that you are the body of the
Lord, you will condemn yourselves
by the way you eat and by the
way you drink. The NIV
translation saying body of the Lord, I think
is a little bit off. The older
manuscripts don't show it that way.
Friends, we come to the Lord's Supper. We are
to discern that we are
one body of Christ, rich and
poor, different socioeconomic
classes, different races, different populations. We are unified
in Jesus Christ, different languages, different tongues, nations, you name it.
We all are united in Jesus Christ.
And if we're abusing those sociological status
and all of those things, then we are incurring judgment of the Lord.
And Paul then says in verse 30, I put that up there,
that is why many of you are weak and sick, and some have even died.
Paul has had it revealed to him by God supernaturally
that some of the sickness and the death that's been occurring in that community
in the church community is a result of God's judgment upon them
but I want us to be very careful now in how we apply that verse
because it's easy to start thinking, well wait a minute, I'm sick, I've had
some chronic problem and maybe I'm part of this. I don't think we can say
necessarily that that situation translates into today directly
as when Paul was writing at that moment. Paul is talking about a situation
and a group of people, and I want to be very careful
in applying that today. But I would like to say this in conclusion.
How the Lord's Supper is to be taken, we see nothing
from the text that necessarily says that you have to have a Master of Divinity
and an ordination certificate to preside.
Though I do think there's something to that
in terms of the order of the church
and in having people in that status doing that.
But when they are not available,
I think it's appropriate for other leaders in the church
to dispense those things.
I don't see anything in the text that argues against
why women cannot distribute and serve communion as well.
I want to summarize this.
The theology of the Lord's Supper,
I pull this out of Craig Blomberg again.
I think it's well done.
And these slides are going to go fast,
so kind of watch them.
But the Lord's Supper, the meaning underneath it all is this.
It looks back to Christ's death.
It's a reminder, the memory tool.
It's an opportunity to look in and say,
how is my heart, how am I treating my fellow believers?
Self-examination.
It's an upward look to fellowship with God.
Because of the death of Jesus,
we have intimate connection and fellowship with God.
It's a look around.
These are my brothers and sisters in Christ.
We come together united to celebrate.
We look forward to Christ's return,
to the reality that we'll be with him forever.
And we look outward to proclaim God's word,
to proclaim the reality of this meal
and the truths behind it to the world at large
that needs to hear what God has done for us.
And finally, I just want to make this comment
that we at this church, we on a monthly basis,
take what we call the Deacon's Fund offering.
It's something we take on Communion Sundays,
and I realize some of you may have already given to that experience.
I'm just going to kind of impromptu here.
I would like to have our ushers in a moment.
After we have Communion,
I'd like for us to take another offering
specifically for our Deacon's Fund.
And you may have already given to that,
but for those who don't know about that,
I want to just make it available to you one more time today.
What we do here is this.
for those who are hurting or have a financial crisis
or a need or something comes up in their life.
We take certain funds on a monthly basis
for the needy and for those who are struggling.
And the staff and the deacon team,
we disperse those on a needed basis.
And it comes out of this text,
whereby the rich and the poor were united together
and were taking care of each other's needs.
And so on Communion Sunday, we take this offering.
And again, if you've already given to this,
I'm not asking you to do it again.
But for those who didn't know about that experience,
what the Deacons Fund is all about,
and if you'd like to contribute,
it only goes for those as part of our church family
that have a need.
And the church uses those funds to do that.
So after communion, I'd like to call the ushers forward again,
and we'll just take that offering
if you'd like to participate.
Well, now at this time, we've studied through the text
the Lord's Supper.
It's now time that we partake.
