We're going to be opening this thing to the community.
We're going to be praying for new ministries.
And we're going to do it in triplets.
And so you're going to be hearing about this in the coming weeks.
We want you all to be involved in a triplet, an intergenerational triplet.
So somebody in the more senior generation, somebody in that middling generation,
and somebody in our younger, down even at junior high, high school if we want.
And they're going to pray together.
And we're going to do this during a 60-day period.
you're going to meet for 60 minutes
six times. Now I know
somebody said, that's 666, Kirk.
And I said, well, don't worry about it.
Because I didn't think 50-50
it didn't work. It didn't flow right.
So we're going to do this, but you're going to meet
for, in six weeks, over an eight
week span, for 60 minutes.
An hour. And I trust, trust me,
an hour with three people praying for each other
and for the ministries here will go
like that. And you will get to
know each other across the generations
and be praying for God to bless this place.
Now, next week, Bill Brown is going to share with me an interview,
a testimony of what happened back in 1955 when our church did that.
And I'm not going to give it away,
but there were some amazing things that God did within 30 days
of our congregation praying like that that you've got to hear.
So I'm going to have him come next week in this service and the first one
and share that story.
So you want to be here for that.
Now, as we're talking about buildings and changes,
I am announcing just as of this morning,
I need an emergency admin council meeting right after this service.
If you're on administrative council, I need you for about 15 minutes.
It's a property across the street that has just become available as of this morning.
And I don't know what God's will is,
but I want to make sure we look at that and pray through that.
Would you pray with me right now for the wisdom of our council today
that we would do what God wants us to do?
So just bow your heads for a minute.
Father, as your congregation here in Fullerton First Baptist on this corner,
we need wisdom.
You've led us thus far in a great campaign.
You've led us to improve our property.
And, Father, we're asking if you would lead us now
in giving us wisdom about properties in our surrounding area.
And, Father, you know this one across the street.
I pray that if it's your will that you would show us the way.
And if it's not, you close the door.
Father, we want to do what you would have us do.
So may the council meet with great wisdom that comes from your spirit.
and give us insight and ideas.
We only want to do what you want to do.
So it's in your hands, Father, we pray, in your name.
I'll see you all in 104 next door for that meeting.
Well, as I said, we're going to start a series in two weeks
called Tough Questions and Honest Answers.
Because I know there are still, for many people,
you believe in the Lord, you have reason to follow Jesus,
you've had experiences,
but there are certain intellectual questions
that are still hanging out there
that if you could solve a few of those puzzles,
it would really cement you more deeply in your faith.
These are also the kind of questions
that your friends and neighbors will ask you
across the barbecue,
and often these are the ones that stump us.
And people will say, well, aha,
if you can't answer that,
to heck with your religion.
And I think it behooves all of us,
whether you've walked for Christ for a long time
or are new in the faith
or are investigating the faith,
that we look at these kinds of issues.
And so for eight weeks, starting in the middle of September, right after Labor Day,
we're going to do kind of a different sermon series that kind of attacks those tough,
top eight big intellectual stumpers that get people into trouble.
And the first one is, of course, the question of how can there be a good God
and there still be evil in the world?
We're going to look at that.
You come back in the middle of September for that, and we're going to go for that.
If you want to get ahead on the reading material for this series,
We're using Lee Strobel's book, The Case for Faith, as sort of the rubric for this series.
And his eight questions are the ones we're going to investigate.
If you want to do some pre-reading in that or read along week by week as we go through that,
we're going to go straight through as he does and attack those issues.
And I encourage you to be a part of that.
So bring your friends this fall.
It's going to be a series you won't forget.
Now, I want to look this morning, as we look at a couple weeks here, on about symbols.
And I've put some symbols up here for you to take a look at.
Different kind of symbols.
Now, symbols are very prevalent in our culture.
And each one of those says a lot in it.
Some are high tech.
Some of them are religious.
Some of them are Mickey Mouse, literally.
I didn't mean anything disparaging by that.
I love the mouse.
But you've got all kinds of symbols.
And symbols, they bring up emotion.
they communicate what we can't put down in words very easily.
They can communicate entire concepts,
things that would take volumes to write about,
can be brought to mind and impact us by just seeing a symbol.
When applied to the church,
the visible expression of Jesus' body on earth,
symbols can point us to God.
Symbols can teach us about God.
Being a part of a symbol can really communicate powerful things
about who God is and who we are
and his relationship to us just through a symbol.
I could preach for weeks,
but the symbol will communicate it better.
We could teach seminars on and on,
but the symbol will capture it better.
That's the power of symbols.
And so this week, we're gonna talk about
the symbol of baptism.
Now, some of you are saying,
we're in a Baptist church,
why are you talking about baptism?
We should all know that by now.
And that's probably true for most people.
I suspect most of you know much of this material,
but for those of you that are newer or perhaps it's been a while since you've gone over this,
I want us to capture again why baptism, what is up with baptism,
and what does God do and speak to us through baptism.
And so my hope is as we review some basic concepts this week and next,
that we'll learn about these symbols,
and they'll be more powerful to us in our lives because of it.
Now Jesus gave us essentially two ordinances,
And an ordinance means something that's ordered or instituted by Jesus Christ himself.
And so we start off with baptism, and then next week, as we take the Lord's Supper,
we're going to talk about the deep meaning in the Lord's Supper.
I hope you'll find that good teaching for you.
But when you participate in those two symbols, baptism and the Lord's Supper,
we're experiencing something of God.
We're experiencing a symbol that he has given to us that communicates
and connects us with God in a way only a visible,
and I'm even going to argue a kinesthetic symbol can.
Something that you touch and that you taste
and you are literally a part of.
Symbols have a way of teaching us about God
in ways that are so very different.
A couple of very famous churches across the country
have actually made videos of some of their baptism services.
And I've seen these different videos at various conferences.
And they run, you know, five, seven minutes.
and they're just kind of one baptism after another
with some music that communicates
kind of the reality of baptism.
And every time, doggone, that I see one of those videos,
I, Mr. Stoic, no cry,
am weeping in the pew or the chair
because I realize there's something in that symbol
and the music and the way it's all put together
that touches me in deep areas
that really nothing else does.
And when I see people going through baptism,
and I understand more deeply the meaning,
I am just moved in a way that's uncanny and amazing.
So what is baptism all about?
Well, let's take a look at it.
I'm going to argue this morning
that if you decide to follow Jesus as your leader,
your director, your boss, to make him your Lord,
and if you've left your old life behind and said,
Jesus is the way, the truth, and the life,
then I'm going to argue that you should be baptized.
And that's my first point.
Why should I be baptized?
First of all, is to follow the example set by Jesus Christ himself.
And I want to look at some verses this morning.
If you want to write these down and look at them yourself at later at home, that would be great too.
But notice in Mark 1, verse 9.
One day Jesus came from Nazareth in Galilee, and he was baptized by John in the Jordan River.
John the Baptist, if you know his story, is a woolly, hairy guy out in the desert,
who is a connoisseur of bugs that was probably quite a sight.
And he's out there preaching a baptism and performing a baptism of repentance.
And the people, by the mobs, were out there succumbing to this baptism of repentance.
They were basically saying they were sorry for their sins against God,
and they were getting washed in the river, which was symbolic of cleansing.
And they were out there professing their sin.
Jesus, then, is baptized by John.
And if you think about it, technically, Jesus did not need baptism.
Jesus has no sin to be sorry for.
Jesus, as God who's come in the flesh, has lived a perfect moral life, a perfect life in every way.
He doesn't need to go through this ritual of cleansing.
But if he's identifying with his followers, which I'm going to argue is what he's doing,
Then he goes through baptism to show us the way.
And if you think about it further, Jesus actually becomes sin for his followers
by taking sin in himself, taking it to the cross,
and taking it away from all those who follow him.
It's an amazing thing.
Jesus underwent baptism as a model for us.
The second reason is because Jesus Christ commands that we be baptized.
He expects that when you become a follower, when you become a believer,
that you are to be baptized.
So number two, because Christ commands it.
Matthew 28, one of our theme verses for this church
that comes out of the various early days
when this church was actually begun in the late 1800s,
we've been following these basic principles.
Matthew 28, therefore, it says,
go and make disciples of all the nations,
and notice, baptizing them.
Baptizing them in the name of the Father
and of the Son and the Holy Spirit.
and then he says, teach these new disciples to obey all the commands I've given you
and be sure of this, I am with you always, even to the end of the age.
I think the implication simply is this, that Jesus is saying if you are now a follower of me
and you become a believer in Jesus Christ, he expects you to be baptized.
1 John also challenges us in an interesting way.
It says this, 1 John 2, 3,
and how can we be sure that we belong to him?
By obeying his commandments.
If you're wondering, am I a follower of Jesus?
Does it move you inside to be obedient
to the director of your life?
And if he's saying, I want you to be baptized,
are you moved to do that?
Why be baptized?
Because one, we follow the example of Jesus
because Jesus simply says so
and we do it, number three,
because it demonstrates that I really am a believer.
It's a symbol that identifies you with God's people.
Acts 18.8, the Bible says,
Crispus, the leader of the synagogue,
and all of his household believed in the Lord.
And many others in Corinth also became believers
and were baptized, brought into the family.
Baptism is the kind of symbol
in which we yield ourselves to God.
And the fact that it's done publicly
is there as a sign to show us
that we are now members of a larger family of God.
So if that's what baptism is for
in terms of Jesus wants us to do it,
what does it actually mean?
What is the meaning of baptism?
So number two, what's the meaning?
Well, first of all, it's a symbol of something,
and it points to a deeper reality.
That deeper reality is that it illustrates
Christ's burial and his resurrection.
Notice 1 Corinthians 5.
I passed on to you, says Paul, what was most important
and what had also been passed on to me,
that Christ died for your sins, just as the Scripture said.
He was buried and he was raised from the dead on the third day,
as the Scripture said.
Now when you watch somebody get into the waters of baptism
and what you're seeing there is a reenactment of the life,
the death, and the resurrection of Jesus Christ.
And what you're seeing there is a person saying,
I am committing myself to that experience as well.
As Christ died and was raised, so my old life dies,
and I'm raised again as well.
I'm a new, clean, fresh, spirit-filled person.
All things are made new.
That's the symbol that's communicated in that reality.
Jesus literally did die 2,000 years ago on a cross.
He literally did, was placed in a tomb,
and he literally rose again.
And that symbol communicates all of that reality
in just a few moments.
But now Colossians chapter two says this,
for you were buried with Christ when you were baptized
and with him you were raised to a new life
because you trusted the mighty power of God
who raised Christ from the dead.
Second point is it illustrates my new life as a Christian.
When you accept Jesus as your Master, as your Lord,
and you decide to renounce one lifestyle and pursue Jesus' lifestyle,
and you are accepting all the grace and forgiveness that comes from following the Lord
and receiving the Holy Spirit,
then you are empowered now to live a supernatural, exciting, life-affirming kind of life.
And with that, you are a new person.
And you are a new person in God's eyes.
Look at this scripture here, 2 Corinthians 5.17.
What this means is that those who become Christians, it says, become new persons.
They are not the same anymore.
For the old life is gone and a new life has begun.
Amen to that.
And Romans 6.4 captures it a different way.
For we died and were buried with Christ by baptism.
And just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glorious power of the Father,
now we also may live new lives.
I want to be clear about this one issue.
That baptism doesn't make you a believer.
That baptism is not what makes you saved.
That is a work in the heart.
That is a decision that happens inside when you trust Jesus to be your Lord and Savior.
When that happens inside, baptism is an outward reflection of what's already happened inside here.
I think the best illustration I can come up with on this
is the symbol of a wedding band.
The wedding band doesn't actually make them married.
When a couple comes to the altar,
it's the commitment.
Technically, in California, it's actually the signature.
Do you know that?
Backstage.
That's what actually makes them married.
It isn't the wedding ring itself.
Placing the ring on the finger
doesn't actually now make them married.
It's really about the vows and the whole experience,
what's really happening inside,
And the ring validates and expresses that inward reality.
But it doesn't make them married.
Just because you go out and get a cigar band and put it on your beloved's finger
doesn't mean that you are married.
Or you put gold or whatever, it doesn't actually mean that you're married.
It's an outward expression of something else that's happened.
Does that help? Is that clear?
A little bit? Nod this way? Okay.
I want to say something else about it.
salvation is not about whether you get into the water or not.
Salvation is not about how many good works you can do.
Salvation is not found by doing things.
In fact, it comes, as you'll see again in Ephesians chapter 2,
it is by grace you have been saved through faith.
It's not from yourselves.
It is the gift of God.
Not by works, not by baptism, not by all kinds of other things,
so that no one can boast.
It's by grace we're saved through faith.
If I've made the case so far about why we should be baptized,
I want to make a further argument that I think baptism by immersion
is actually the most profound way to do this.
Let me explain why I think that.
First of all, every time the word baptism is used in the Bible,
in the New Testament, the word baptizo is a Greek word,
and it means in its literal meaning to plunge under, to dip, or to immerse.
So every time they use that term referring to this act or rite of baptism,
there's underneath it this concept of immersing somebody under the water.
And the secular Greek term was talking about plunge or sink or drench or overwhelm.
And I don't know how to get around the idea of sticking something under a liquid substance.
That's the word's original meaning.
Number two, it can be argued, I think, very well, that Jesus was baptized that way.
Matthew 3.16, after his baptism, as Jesus came up out of the water,
the heavens were opened, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and settled on him.
Jesus went down into the water, he came back up out of the water,
and the Greek word referring to his experience in the water is the word baptizo,
which means to plunge under the water.
So all those things lead me to say Jesus was baptized by immersion,
and it seems like all the rest of them in Scripture were as well.
That's my third point.
Every baptism in the Bible was by immersion.
Acts 8.38.
In one of the stories he says he ordered the carriage to stop
and they went down into the water
and Philip baptized the Ethiopian eunuch.
When they came up out of the water,
the Spirit of the Lord caught Philip away.
Now I want to say this,
that not everybody who has a baptism experience
necessarily has a mystical experience.
I can't claim that every person is going to have the heavens open
or they're going to have some emotional rush
or some kind of experience,
but I am saying it is entirely possible that God may do that in your life.
And I've known many people who have found baptism to be one of those
high moments in their spiritual journey that did have a spiritual something
that, again, they can't put into words, but something happened to them
emotionally and otherwise that signified the reality
of what had already happened in their life.
Again, that symbol is very powerful.
I would argue that baptism by immersion is a total body kinesthetic experience
that your whole person, body, soul, mind, and everything is brought together
and saying yes to Jesus publicly about what's happened inside.
And it's a great, wonderful experience.
I don't believe you'll ever forget it, and it's absolutely worth doing.
So now who should be baptized? Number four.
The Bible keeps reiterating that every person who's believed in Christ is to be baptized.
I would say that baptism is not optional.
It's not something to get around to,
kind of like doing your garage someday,
I'm going to clean it out.
You know, someday, next year, we're going to get to that,
or maybe the following year.
I'm going to say that baptism is for everybody.
And the Bible says in Acts 2.41,
those who believe what Peter said were baptized
and added to the church, about 3,000 in all.
And look at Acts 8.12.
And by now, the people of Philip's message
of good news concerning the kingdom of God
in the name of Jesus Christ.
As a result, many men and women were baptized.
Over and over.
They make a decision to follow Jesus,
and they were baptized.
All throughout the scriptures, over and over.
In 8.13, Simon himself believed and was baptized.
Make a decision, baptism.
Decision, baptism.
What about children?
What about children?
Young children can make profound decisions
for Jesus Christ.
And it's our policy here at Fullerton First Baptist
that we'll actually want to wait, though, a little bit for really young children.
And here's why.
We don't believe that baptism is bringing about salvation.
We believe it's an act of obedience and all the things we've already talked about.
But I want that experience to be something the child really understands what they're doing.
Because we don't want to keep doing it over and over.
We want it to be a one-time thing, a marker in their life.
And if they do it when they're too young and years later can't remember it,
I think we actually rip them off in some ways.
Pastor Dave is just extraordinary on our staff here
at being able to talk with children
and discern if this decision is really something
they fully understand and know about,
committed to the core,
if they have the maturity level to fully grasp
as much of the mystical realities that are happening,
or if it's simply everybody else in my Sunday school
is doing this.
Dave is really good at figuring out those issues.
And that's really our policy.
We go on kind of a case-by-case basis.
We just check it out to make sure we really know what they're doing.
We've seen some young kids, very young, who are just on their little warriors,
and man, they know what they're doing, and look out, and we'll do that.
At the same time, if there's some sense where there's some deeper understanding that needs to happen,
we want to wait a little bit.
Just give them a chance to grow up in that experience a little bit before they do that.
So that's our policy on children.
At the same time, for infants, we don't baptize infants
because we see Scripture saying over and over that there is a decision
and an expression of that decision.
But we do practice an infant dedication to the Lord.
And there's precedence in the Old Testament for that
because even Jesus was brought to the temple on the eighth day
and given symbolically to the Lord.
And so as a right or as a symbol here,
which is really more about the parents and the congregation
than about the child.
We do an infant dedication whereby the church is affirming
we're going to stand behind this family,
we're going to be there to help raise this child
in the name of the Jesus Christ,
and we are affirming that those parents also are saying
we're going to do everything we can to raise this child
in the name of the Lord and with full knowledge of Him.
And the congregation together affirms those things.
And that's our ceremony of dedication.
Finally, when shall I be baptized?
Well, I would say as soon as you believe.
Unless you are three years old,
we want to kind of check that out.
If you are making an adult decision,
I would say as soon as possible.
Acts 2.41.
Again, those who believe that Peter said were baptized
and added to the church, about 3,000 in all.
That didn't take place a long time away.
Those were kind of almost immediate experiences.
And wouldn't you love to see 3,000 people baptized?
I can't wait for that day.
It may never happen to me,
but I would love to see thousands of people
responding to the Lord and being baptized.
Oh, what a treat that would be.
Acts 8.35.
Again, we've seen this story,
but I want to show it to you again.
So Philip began with the same scripture
and then used many others to tell him
the good news about Jesus.
And as they rode along, they came to some water.
And the eunuch said, look, there's some water.
Why can't I be baptized?
And he ordered the carriage to stop,
and they went down to the water and Philip baptized him.
I mean, right there, he's having this experience.
He understands, he makes a commitment,
they stop the coach, he gets down,
and he's baptized right on the spot.
I think that's marvelous.
It's a symbol that cements into your mind
the reality of what has happened in your soul.
It's a great idea to follow up a decision with Jesus
with a declaration publicly of that commitment.
And I'll tell you, when you're in the baptistry
or wherever you are, a swimming pool or whatever,
and you've got your friends and family around,
And if you've decided to follow Jesus, it cements that reality.
It's not like, oh, whatever, that emotional thing.
This is for real.
And you're saying who you are in Jesus in baptism.
If you've never made a decision to be baptized,
but you have decided to follow Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior,
I would encourage you to call our office and let's set up a time soon and do that.
Let's really have that experience that you can celebrate together with the body of Christ.
It'll be a day you'll never forget.
And now it's my privilege today to begin,
because we're going to conclude this service,
with a baptism.
One of our students, Katie Rule,
made a decision to follow Jesus Christ
at our summer camp this summer.
And she's following up that experience today
with the baptism.
So Brian, are you there?
The light is on.
