The bulk of us who are under 60 here, to love on them.
It's their faithfulness, their commitment, their sacrifice for all these years that allow us to be where we are.
And as we go forward in ministry, we're building on their shoulders.
And we want to acknowledge and honor and bless them.
So under 60, we pay $3 and we get to serve them and love them and give them the standing ovation.
But you are all welcome. We want the whole church to be there.
and we'll proclaim God is good together
as we love those who've gone before us.
So look forward to having you there next week.
Well, this morning we continue in a four-week series
talking about our money and our stewardship.
And if you were a guest this morning,
you picked a great time to come
because we're now talking about money.
And let's just be honest.
If you're a guest this morning, this is family business.
This is something that those who are committed to this church
are going to wrestle with together.
and we welcome you to look in and peer into what's going on,
but we don't want you to feel guilty or any compunction to give or anything to this place
until God leads you to that place.
So just enjoy, relax, and the rest of us, we're going to scour God's Word for truth today
and enjoy Him and look forward to what He's going to speak to us about.
I want this series to be life-transforming and real, make it a difference in our lives.
Scripture is full of references about money.
In fact, there are over 2,000 verses on the topic.
The Bible talks so much about money because it's so dear to us.
It's so dear to our heart.
It reflects what we care about.
It reflects our spirit.
It's a vehicle for us to worship the Lord or to determine what we truly do worship.
I was a pastor that was very afraid of speaking about money.
It felt self-serving.
It felt manipulative with all the scandals of our past.
I just felt like I couldn't go there.
So for years, I rarely talked about it.
And I got really emboldened on this topic when I took Crown Ministries.
When I went through the course, the 12 weeks of studying God's Word on all these various dimensions of money and stewardship and finances,
it just turned my head around.
And so I'm not asking you all to go through it to be preachers,
but I'll tell you, when you go through that course,
it will change your whole world view about how God views money and our response to it.
Robin and I are going to lead a study this coming year,
and there's others in the congregation that will be doing so as well.
I would encourage you to dive into one of those.
You can do it for 12 weeks,
and I guarantee you're going to be blessed and encouraged and really have a good time.
So that's why I'm so passionate, because I've seen God, in His Word, talk about this topic.
And I want to preach with passion and power this morning.
What I want from you is I want you to be passionate about three things.
The first is living for giving.
I want you to be passionate about living that you might be a blessing to others, that you might live for giving.
Number two, I want you to be passionate about living through giving.
And finally, I want you to be passionate about a lifestyle we're going to call giving living.
It's easy to remember, catchy almost, makes a great sermon title,
but it better it makes a life.
And I want us to live a lifestyle of giving living.
As we've been talking about, when you adopt a giving living lifestyle,
you're getting in touch with living as Jesus would live, and that's a life of giving.
The Bible says in John 3.16, God so loved the world that he did what?
He gave.
It's the character and heart of our God to be generous, even to the point of sacrificing his own son.
That's giving living.
That's a God who's generous.
And giving living is not just something we can do as individuals, but it's something here for the church as well.
See, we know the verses.
1 Corinthians 9, I've shared it with you.
For God loves the person who gives with a frown.
No.
God loves the person who gives cheerfully.
The word in Greek has to do with the word hilarious.
I'd love to see us smile when we give.
Some week we're going to try some exercise to see what that's about.
Instead of putting our head down and pass the plate, we're going to give with joy.
We know the verse.
We also know this one.
1 Timothy 6, verse 10.
For the love of money is at the root of all kinds of evil.
It doesn't say that money is the root of all evil, does it?
People say that all the time.
Well, you know money is the root of all evil.
Really?
And I suppose that God helps those who help themselves, right?
And they go, yeah, exactly.
It's in the Bible.
No, it's not.
That was Thomas Jefferson.
God, thank God, helps those who can't help themselves, like us.
Amen? Love of money is at the root of all evil.
Money's not the problem, it's our attitude towards it.
And if we love it and hoard it, that's the problem.
And some people, it says, craving money, have wandered from the faith
and pierced themselves with many sorrows.
They craved it. They couldn't let it go.
They had to have more. When's enough? It's never enough.
Because there's always somebody else who has more than you.
and you will chase the rest of your life
trying to catch up with the Joneses.
The Joneses don't exist, friends,
because there's always some Jones
better than that Jones.
You see what I'm saying?
You can always chase
and you'll never get there.
We know what God wants.
We know God wants us to give.
We know God wants us to give to the church.
We know we're supposed to tithe.
We just say,
Pastor, I'm still thinking about it.
I'm thinking about it.
And it's been 10 years.
I'm still thinking about it,
but I'm thinking about it.
Every year you preach
and I'm thinking about it.
It's time for us to stop thinking and just start doing.
And just do it.
And trust the Lord.
He's going to take care of us.
One of our problems, though, is not only are we thinking about it,
but we get caught up with Stuff Mart.
You know what Stuff Mart is?
Stuff Mart is the proverbial Costco, Sam's Club, Big Five, Nordstrom's,
kind of all rolled into one.
And it's so a part of our culture, isn't it?
We've got to go to Stuff Mart and get more stuff to pack our homes
and stay busy and never connect with people
and chase more hours at work and do more things,
we get more stuff.
And then if we get around to it, we'll give to the Lord.
But guess what?
Those credit card payments are piling up
and I guess the Lord doesn't get any of his due this month
because it's going to Stuff Mart.
The VeggieTales teach us about Stuff Mart.
Let's take a look.
What does it mean?
It's big.
Madam, there's someone here to see you.
Ourselves.
We moved in down the street.
Some say we're the most delightful bunch of fellows you'll ever want to meet.
And if you have a moment to spare, find lady with beauty so rare.
We'd like to take a minute or two on a topic of interest to you.
We represent the Stuff Mart, an enormous land of goodies.
Would you mind if we stepped in, please?
And as associates of the Stuff Mart, it looks like you could use some stuff.
Oh, yes, I was just saying that I pray that you won't take this reservation as a custom.
Of the wonderful yet to come.
Pictures you keep are so nice, but you really do.
Happiness waits at the stuff mart.
All you need is lots more stuff.
I think that's true.
Yes, it is.
Happiness waits at the stuff mart.
All you need is lots more stuff.
Happiness waits at the stuff mart.
And can't you just see that moral tension?
Is this really true?
It's not true.
The more stuff, the more clutter,
the more your credit card goes up, but you're really not happy.
I can't find a rhyme there, but, you know, the reality is this.
Stuff gets in the way of our giving to the Lord.
It's a pseudo-tranquilizer that makes us feel good for the moment,
but it's just stuff.
And friends, I'm here to say that our culture is so embedded in materialism,
our culture is so embedded in individualism,
that those things program us to be wealthy and yet isolated.
We work more hours and crave to get more per hour
that we can then work harder to get more stuff.
And we become rich and lonely in the process.
Robin and I are very convicted that our suburban lifestyle,
which drives us to more stuff and loneliness,
is keeping us from the very people in our own neighborhood.
It's really easy for us just to get up and go and fly
and literally maybe once or twice a year connect with a neighbor
because we're driven, aren't we, on this lifestyle of get more stuff
and then buy it, take it home, and cocoon in the home,
behind the gates, away from other people.
And I buy into that as easy as anybody else,
and I get really challenged by that.
And somewhere the Christian church needs to say,
no, we love our country, we love the opportunity,
We love all the opportunity for the stuff, but we have to say no to a mindset that says,
stuff will make me happy, so charge it up.
Pay for it later, worry about it later, and when God comes calling for the tithe,
we say, Lord, we don't have any left.
We chase the stuff.
How about we be a little less rich and a little more deeply connected to each other?
How about we be deeply connected to God and each other?
That's a giving, living lifestyle.
We give of ourselves and to the Lord.
And we may have a little less stuff,
but I think in the end, we're more fulfilled, really,
to live a lifestyle of giving, living.
We're going to have to say no to Stuff Mart sometimes.
Let's be honest.
When I go to Stuff Mart, you go in for one item.
You come out with ten, don't you?
because you needed 64 gallons of mayonnaise at a special deal.
You need to have thus and such.
And we rationalize and tell ourselves rational lies,
and we walk out of there with $150 more than we thought for the $2 item we went in for
because it's there in our face.
You know what?
Just don't go there for a while.
When we expose ourselves to more things, we become enraptured by the things we don't have.
Just don't go.
You won't even know what you're missing.
And don't take your children.
It's over when you bring them in there.
Food for thought.
We're going to have to live a lifestyle of giving, living.
We're going to have to live, first of all, as God is our source.
The Bible says that God created the heavens and the earth.
Therefore, everything is his.
Psalm 24, it says that.
The earth is the Lord's and everything in it,
The world and all its people belong to Him.
If God made everything, God is our creator, then He is our provider.
And He's the one in whom we live and move and have our being.
Therefore, friends, He owns it all.
He's actually the purveyor of Stuff Mart in one sense.
He owns everything.
It doesn't mean that we have to have everything.
We are to manage what He allows us to have,
and we must be wise in how we take in what we take and what we have.
Do we give the Lord His firstfruits and then go and bless our friends and our families?
Or do we bless ourselves by trying to be happy first and then rip off God in the process?
We're going to have to realize that God is the source and live and trust Him to provide for us
When we give him, let's first do him.
It's all his.
In fact, with God as our provider, if we live that way, we can afford to be generous
because we're not going to worry about it coming in.
You know, I think God gives more so we can bless others.
But if we take in and then just buy stuff for us, I don't think he blesses that.
We've found in our life the times we get more generous and give things away,
God seems to provide more that we can keep giving.
When we stop giving, the blessings dry up
and we seem to just spend it all on ourselves
and we get lonely and no more comes in.
And then we've got to charge it up
and then we get in trouble upside down on the credit cards.
It's a miserable lifestyle.
But the world programs us for that lifestyle.
And the church is called to be counter-cultural,
to say no, we don't need everything.
We need the Lord and each other.
And the rest is negotiable.
If God's our provider, he'll take care of us,
we can be generous.
Churches, it works the same way.
With God as our provider, we as the church can afford to do ministries that God has called us to do.
If he's called us to a ministry, he will provide what it takes to make it happen.
Churches get caught in horizontalism, as it's been called.
We worry as a church about all these things out here.
Oh, but the stock market.
Oh, but the plant closed down in town.
Oh, but this and oh, but that.
And we get afraid to do ministry because we're afraid God won't provide.
I think it's wise to ask a question in ministry, can we afford this?
It's not a bad question, but I think a better question is,
is this God's will and plan for us now?
Because if we think it is, God will meet us there.
If God is the source, then churches can follow God and be generous with ministry
and be generous in their budgets and be generous to do things
because we trust that God will provide as the source.
with God we can dream God-sized dreams and take on God-sized projects if we believe God is the
source if we believe that we are the source yes everything matters stocks up or down how's the
economy in the town what's happening local plant we worry about those things because if we're the
source we got to be careful God is the source he can do it in spite of those things I want to share
you a story from Experiencing God, a book that we've been studying in various classes here at
the church, and I can't tell the story as well as he writes it, so if you'll indulge me, I'm going
to read it to you, this short couple pages, because I want you to hear the tension as it builds in
this story. Henry Blackaby was a pastor, and one year it says, the people on our finance committee
said, pastor, you have taught us to walk by faith in every area of the life of your church,
of our church rather except in the budget i asked them to explain they said well when we set the
budget we set the budget on the basis of what we believe we can do it does not reflect that we
expect god to do anything i said then how do you feel we ought to get to set the budget they said
first we should determine all that god wants to do through us second we need to estimate what the
cost will be. And finally, we should divide the budget goal into three categories. The first one,
what we plan to accomplish through our tithes. Number two, what others have promised to do.
And number three, what we must depend on God to do. As a church, we prayed and decided that God
did want us to use this approach to budgeting. We did not try to dream our own dreams for God.
We had to be absolutely sure that God was leading us to do the things we put in the budget.
Then we listed what that would cost.
We listed what we thought our people would give and what others,
denominational board, partnership, churches, individuals, had said they would give.
The difference between what we could reasonably expect to receive
and the total was what we would ask God to provide.
The big question was, what is our operating budget?
Well, by faith we adopted the grand total as the operating budget.
At this point, we reached a crisis of belief.
Did we really believe that the God who led us to do these things
would also provide the resources to bring them to pass?
That's the crisis.
Do we really believe that God is the source?
If he's called us to these ministries, is he really going to come through?
Anytime God leads you to do something that has God-sized dimensions,
you will face a crisis of belief.
You can bank on that one.
When you face a crisis of belief, what you do next reveals what you really believe about God.
Here's what they did.
The budget of our church, this is in Canada a few years ago, keep that in mind,
would normally have been about $74,000.
The budget was set for $164,000.
We pledged to pray daily that God would meet our agenda and our needs.
Any money that came in that we did not anticipate, we credited to God.
At the end of that year, we had reached $172,000.
They budgeted $64,000 originally.
They went after $168,000, and they brought in $172,000.
God taught our church a lesson that, in faith, that radically changed us all.
I share that because we have to believe as a church that God is our source as well
and believe that he's going to lead us to ministry and provide for that ministry.
Do we live that way?
Do we live that way as individuals? Do we live that way as a church?
A few pages later, he talks about their building campaign.
We've been there. We're still there. Here's what happened.
God gave them a vision to build a bigger building for the ministry.
Guess how much they had in their building fund to start? $749.
That was it. Okay, we're going to start with $749.
The building was going to cost $220,000.
This is Canada, folks. It's Canada.
Okay. Rural Canada. Rural Canada. Got that? It's not Orange County. Rural Canada. But you'll get
the principle. 220,000. I wish we could do that for 220,000. No. 3 million. More like it. The church
did a lot. They even saved labor by doing it themselves. A lot of it. However, comma, as they
were moving along, they realized they're about 60,000 short as they're getting to the end of
the project. $60,000. And they had a crisis of belief. God, are you going to let us hang out
here? We believe that you want to do this. You want to build the building. We even did some work
on ourselves to save money to help along the process, but we're still $60,000 short. Where is
that Texas foundation that you promised was going to give us some money? Delay after delay after
delay. The money wouldn't come in from this one source.
After one more delay, they got very frustrated. Interesting thing happened
though after that last delay from Texas. The Canadian dollar
dropped to its lowest value ever.
And for that one day, it was plummeting way down.
Guess what day that Texas Foundation
decided to transfer the money from Texas to Canada?
that day. Guess how much the difference gave the Canadian church? $60,000. Friends, God is the source
in His timing for His purposes. I share the story because it's real. God can do, though I think He
takes pleasure in stringing us out a little bit just to work the universe that things like that
happen. God's got a sense of humor as He stretches us, and sometimes we have to play along. Okay, God,
I don't get it, but you said you're going to provide, and then watch Him do it in ways we
can't imagine. We've got to be obsessed, friends, with the source, with God first, not our own fears,
not our own foibles, with God as the source. That's the first principle for giving living.
God is the source. Number two, you have to plant to grow. It's that law that we shared last week
of sowing and reaping. It's all throughout the Bible. You reap what you sow. You take in what
you give out and more. Last week we talked about little giving, little blessing. Big giving, big
blessing. Biblical concept. So often we're afraid and we give a little bit and get a little bit.
Whatever you put in the ground and allow it to grow, that's what comes back.
God wired that into the creation that way.
Take a look at Luke 6.38.
If you give, you will receive, says Jesus.
Your gift returns to you in full measure, pressed down, shaken together to make room for more.
And running over, whatever measure you use in giving, large or small,
It will be used to measure what is given back to you.
A little giving, a little blessing.
Bigger giving, bigger blessing.
It's our choice.
Galatians 6, don't be misled.
Remember, you can't ignore God and get away with it.
You will always reap what you sow.
Those who live only to satisfy their own sinful desires and go to stuff mart
will harvest the consequences of decay and death.
But those who live to please the Spirit
will harvest everlasting life from the Spirit.
Boy, if I ever go to any of those stores
and you ever catch me there, I'm in big trouble, huh?
I'll go to the one in La Habra.
You won't know where I am.
You get the point.
We all gotta use the stuff,
but do we obsess on the stuff
at the expense of giving to the Lord?
That's the question.
Do we believe that if we give, we're gonna reap?
If we sow, that God will bless us back?
Do we trust Him in that?
Or do we hoard it and hold it
and live fearful lives?
I learned in my research, because I'm not a farmer, I didn't grow up anywhere near a farm.
I'm a suburban kid, asphalt jungle kind of guy.
And I learned that the Bible is very much a book about agrarian life.
There's all kinds of references to sowing and planting and growing and reaping and all that stuff.
And all I can sow and reap are weeds.
So I don't resonate very well with the themes here.
So I had to look up what's a bushel.
It's all over the scriptures, bushel thing.
What's a bushel?
how big is a bushel? Turns out, a bushel is about eight and a half liters. So imagine about four
two-liter Pepsi bottles. That's a bushel, more or less. You can imagine the grain that would go in
four of those bottles. That's about a bushel. I learned that half a bushel of corn seed will plant
an acre and produce 137 bushels of corn. Isn't that amazing? A little bit in the ground and
comes back. God has wired that experience. He has wired the creation to respond like that. But you
can't hold on to the seeds. It's foolish to hold on. This is all the seeds I have. It's all the
corn I've got. I guess you could make popcorn out of them. Or you could plant them and get 137 more
bushels of corn. Or you can hoard what little you've got. And that's the challenge. Can we plant
it to grow it, to let it come back as God brings it back instead of hoarding it ourselves?
The same thing happens in a lot of areas of life.
Do you want encouragement?
Do some encouraging.
It'll come back to you.
Trust me on this.
What you sow, you will reap.
The Bible says it.
That's why I can say it with authority.
Sow it, you'll reap it.
You want encouragement?
Bless somebody else.
If you want discouragement in your life,
then go ahead, discourage somebody
and bite them in the back.
That'll come around.
If you want encouragement, encourage others.
If you want peace, give peace to somebody else.
It'll come back to you.
If you want companionship, go out and bless somebody.
You will have companions.
The challenge is to get our eyes off ourselves onto somebody else,
and in the end, it does come back to us to bless you in the end.
Okay, young people, you want popularity?
Go find somebody who's not as cool as you and bless them.
You'll become popular because they'll come around.
The kid in the corner, not as cool as you, could use a friend.
And if we say we follow Jesus, go over to them and love them.
Part of the reason they're probably not so cool is nobody's been loving them.
Guess what?
You'll have a whole army of people following you, and you will have popularity.
Trust me.
It's the sowing and the reaping.
Do we trust God to provide as we give?
Because here's the one you're really listening for.
You want money?
Yeah.
Bless somebody else.
I bet it will come back.
I really do.
We'd rather hoard, though, because it's in our fingers.
It's easier just to hang on to it.
But the image is to plant it, and it comes back even more.
Can you imagine hanging on to the seed?
We have tomatoes we planted in our front yard.
Kind of a silly thing where the dog was tearing everything up in the backyard.
So we planted some tomatoes in the front out there,
and they've taken over the entire area out there.
We got rid of the dog, by the way, because too much nuts.
But now we've got these tomato plants out in front.
And guess what? We pulled them out, but they left seeds,
And there they are again.
We've got a whole new crop.
We didn't even plant them.
They're just there.
You want tomatoes, come on over, because we don't know what to do with it.
But the reality is, when the seeds go in the ground, they come back.
Perhaps more times than you want.
At least for tomatoes, that works that way.
And I believe the same thing is true in our giving.
When you give to others, when you give of your time and your talent and your treasure to the Lord and to the church,
it comes back to you.
And probably more than you can imagine.
But if you hoard it, it's all you get.
And when you use it up, it's gone.
God is the source.
You've got a plant to grow.
And finally, do you expect God to work in your life?
I know you expect God to work in the pastor's life because he's a paid Christian.
That's what's supposed to happen, right?
Pastors, that works for you guys and gals.
It works in everybody's life.
Is there a spirit of expectancy in your life that God has your number and wants to use you to do amazing things in this world?
Or do you just feel like I'm just little old me, I got nothing to offer and pastoral staff, they got it all together.
God's going to use them but not me.
That is heresy.
That is heresy.
You are the ministers, I'm just the coach.
I'm supposed to watch you do it
and let God use you and your gifts in the world to change the world.
If he only uses me, I've got a very small sphere of influence.
But with 400 of you ministering and giving and blessing in the world,
you will change this community.
But do you expect God to work through you?
Not demand, just expect that that's what he says in his word he's going to do.
He will do it in you.
and He's going to take care of you and work with you and bless you
if you follow biblical principles. Do you believe He'll work in your life?
Look at that verse again, Luke 6, 38. Give and it will be
given to you, pastor. No, give and it will be given to you.
All of you, disciples, followers of
Jesus. A good measure. How much? A good measure.
Pressed down, shaken together, running over.
Poured where?
Into your lap.
The measure that you use, it's measured back to you.
Little blessing, little giving.
There it is again.
You know that image is neat.
Poured into your lap.
In the ancient days, they wore those smocks, those big, long Middle Eastern garbs.
The concept there is that you took up that garment, and you made a big pouch in your lap.
So when the image is, the measure, pressed down, what's happening?
You get some grain, you put it in the bowl,
and you shake it to let it all settle.
And then you press it down to remove the air between the grains
to get more in.
How much more?
So much more that's spilling over.
And then it's dumped into your lap,
and you take it home like this.
Big bushel or more of grain.
That's the image that comes out of the context.
And he's saying that to all of us.
I don't think it's just a spiritual blessing.
And if you give out spiritually, you're going to receive spiritually.
I think it's both.
Yes, if you give spiritually to somebody else, it comes back.
But when you give of your material things, God provides again somehow.
And it's even said, what measure you give out, it's coming back to you.
Press down, shaken, running over.
It's a great image.
Do you believe God will use you?
Do you believe God will work in your life?
I want to see the harvest in all your lives.
I pray for your businesses
I pray that God would bless them
I pray that God would bless your personal finances
I pray he'd bless so many areas of your life
over and over and over
and I look forward to seeing him bless you
and you turn around and give and bless others
and watch it keep coming back
and I have a vision for this church
that we're going to bust through our commitment to our budget
I shared last week we have a $600,000 budget
that was a pretty big leap for us
but not when I believe we should really have a million dollar budget.
Take the giving units, the families that are here,
the envelopes, if you will, represented,
and just do a minimal number per household
and a very small number and just tithe it.
You'd have over a million dollars.
And we struggle with $600,000?
That's silly to me.
Do we believe God's going to provide or not?
And guess what?
As we dream for our next budget, we're just packing it on
because we believe that God has taken us to much bigger heights
than even where we've been.
and I'm just going to pray that God will let you let go and plant and it'll come back
and that you will trust the Lord and you'll just watch him bless your life
and he's going to bless you more through this place and in ways you can't
even imagine. So I'm excited to watch this bus through 600,000
no problem. It's not a problem for God because he's the source, not us.
We just have to get on board with what he's doing. We just have to be faithful
to what he's calling us to do. He'll take care of the rest.
we serve a God who does miracles
do you believe it
do you believe it enough to act
on it giving living
in conclusion as we take God at his word
that's for you to think about
and pray about
you're going to get a letter from me this week and a little commitment card
it's just going to say you know what
based on my prayer
and my earnestly seeking God we believe
that we're going to be able to provide this much
and for fun you might even try and put a little more
just for fun to see that God will take care of you
and then we're going to start to put together our budget.
Tomorrow night, our budget numbers are coming in.
Before we even see what you think you're going to provide,
we're going to have a big whopping number,
and then we're going to just say, okay, praise the Lord,
and we'll see how it comes together.
But I'm asking you to be faithful.
When I say on that card to pray earnestly, I don't mean just, oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I mean really.
Set that card on your bed, and you and a friend or your spouse or whoever
kneel down and say, God, what would you have us do?
is this the year that we're going to tithe and really go for it are we going to go more than
that to trust you what are we going to do and that you'll pray and listen to god and write
your commitment and then we're going to watch how the dreams that god gives us match what god's
going to provide through you and then some and i still have a vision for us being the kind of
church that comes back to our denomination and says to my pastors here's a bunch of extra money
that we don't need right now so go ahead and use it to empower other churches well i'd love to see
that and there's a whole story of that in first corinthians we've looked at that before we can
be that kind of pace setting church and i believe god has that kind of vision for us do you believe
god is your source will you plant to grow will you expect god to work in your life as we think
about that we're going to sing two songs one is a classic from church history that i want us to
hear the words and sing from the bottom of our hearts we call it the doxology praise god from
whom all blessings flow he is the source and then we're going to sing isn't he good because he is
and with that we'll conclude and may god bless you today and bless your giving and all that
you do in ministry let's sing first the doxology james would you lead us
