Amen. Every time I hear that song, it tears me up. The job isn't done, friends. In fact, as Steve said,
it's really beginning here in America. I just read the past couple weeks that the United States
is now the fifth largest unreached people group in the world. Great implications for us to think
about. The job is not done. But I am encouraged when I hear testimonies of what God is doing
amongst you, amongst our friend Steve, we shared our hearts this week, and I just so appreciate
what God is doing through you, and I'm proud to have you part of us around the world, and may God
continue to bless you, and boy, friends of mercenaries, when he told me that story, I lost
my teeth, and I have real teeth, and I just, but oh my goodness, amazing, but that's the kingdom of
God at work in the most unlikely of places. He pairs you up with people who are in darkness
to bring them light. And that's really what the kingdom is about. That's our text this morning as
well. And as I begin, I'd like just to share an introductory comment that somebody asked Helen
Keller one time. She, of course, has been blind since the age of 19 months. And they asked her if
blindness was the worst thing that could befall a person. Is this the worst thing that could happen
to anyone? And she answered that the worst thing that could befall a person was not to lose their
sight, but to lose their vision, but to lose their vision. As a child, she had lost her hearing and
her sight, was unable to lead a beautiful life. I'm sorry, she was rather able to lead a beautiful
life, to complete college and become an author and a lecturer. It happened because somebody was
able to break through her silent, dark world and teach her how to communicate. She was able to lead
a beautiful life of helping others despite her limitations. In spite of the great obstacles,
she had a sense of purpose and vision in life, even though she could not physically see.
Do you know what your purpose in life is?
Do you know why you're here?
Do you know where you're going?
Do you know what life is all about?
In the text that we're going to look at this morning, a blind man will discover who he
is and what his purpose in life is all about.
after he has an amazing encounter with Jesus.
And so in our whirlwind tour of the book of John,
we're looking at some key passages along the way.
And this morning, we look at the events that surround the healing of a man that was born blind.
And as an intro to that, one chapter before our chapter 9 this morning,
Jesus says this.
Once again, Jesus spoke to the people.
And this time he said, I am the light for the world.
follow me and you won't be walking in the dark. You will have the light that gives life.
And from that verse, we step into this narrative as Jesus, the light of the world,
lives out that verse. In chapter 9 of John, as Jesus walked along, He saw a man who had been
blind since birth. And Jesus' disciples asked, teacher, why was this man born blind? Was it
because his parents sinned? Or was it because he sinned? No, it wasn't, Jesus answered. But because
of his blindness, you will see God work a miracle for him. As long as it is day, we must do what the
one who sent me wants me to do. When night comes, no one can work, but while I'm in the world,
I am the light for the world. And after Jesus said this, he spit on the ground, and he made some mud,
and he smeared it on the man's eyes. And then he said, go and wash off the mud in the pool of
Salome. And the man went and he washed in Salome, which means one who is sent. And when he'd washed
off the mud, he could see. Well, the man's neighbors and the people who had seen him begging
wondered if this really could be the same man. Some of them said he was the same beggar, while
others said they only looked like him. But he told them, I am that man. Then how can you see, they
asked. And he answered, someone named Jesus made some mud and smeared it on my eyes. He told me to
go wash in the pool of Siloam, and when I did, I could see. Where is he now? They asked. I don't
know, he answered. The day when Jesus made the mud and healed the man was a Sabbath. So the people
took the man to the Pharisees. They asked him how he was able to see, and he answered, Jesus made
some mud and smeared it on my eyes, and then after I washed it off, I could see. Some of the Pharisees
said, this man doesn't come from God. If he did, he would not break the law of the Sabbath.
And others asked, how could someone who is a sinner work such a miracle? Since the Pharisees
could not agree amongst themselves, they asked the man, what do you say about this man who healed
your eyes. He is a prophet, the man told them. But the Jewish leaders would not believe that the man
who had been blind. They sent for his parents, and they asked them, is this the son that you said was
born blind? How can he see now? The man's parents answered, we're certain he's our son, and we know
that he was born blind, but we don't know how he got his sight or who gave it to him. Ask him. He's
old enough to speak for himself? The man's parents said this because they were afraid of their
leaders. The leaders had already agreed that no one was to have anything to do with anyone who
said that Jesus was the Messiah. Well, the leaders called the man back and said, swear by God to tell
the truth. We know that Jesus is a sinner. The man replied, I don't know if he's a sinner or not.
All I know is that I used to be blind, but now I can see.
What did he do to you, they asked.
How did he heal your eyes?
The man answered, I've already told you once, and you refuse to listen.
Why do you want me to tell you again?
Do you also want to become his disciples?
The leaders insulted the man and said, you are his follower.
We are followers of Moses.
We are sure that God spoke to Moses, but we don't even know where Jesus comes from.
How strange, the man replied.
He healed my eyes, and yet you don't know where he comes from.
We know that God listens only to people who love and obey him.
God doesn't listen to sinners, and this is the first time in history that anyone has
ever given sight to someone born blind.
Jesus could not do anything unless he came from God.
The leaders told the man, you have been a sinner since the day you were born.
Do you think you can teach us anything?
And then they said, you can never come back into any of our meeting places.
And when Jesus heard what happened, he went and he found the man.
And Jesus asked, do you have faith in the Son of Man?
He replied, sir, if you'll tell me who he is, I will put my faith in him.
You've already seen him, Jesus answered, and right now he is talking with you.
The man said, Lord, I put my faith in you.
And then he worshiped Jesus.
Jesus told him, I came to judge the people of this world.
I'm here to give sight to the blind and to make blind everyone who can see.
When the Pharisees heard Jesus say this, they asked, are we blind?
Jesus answered, if you were blind, you would not be guilty.
But now that you claim to see, you will keep on being guilty.
A man blind from birth.
A man blind from birth is one of the lowest souls on the social ladder.
He has no job, no dignity, no life.
And let's be honest, let's just take away our current impression of those who are blind
because there was no good-looking golden retriever as a seeing-eyed dog.
There were no Braille books for leisure.
The blind man begs in the filth of the street just to survive.
And seeing people in the depths of despair and suffering,
when that happens, it provokes questions.
Why does this happen?
Whose fault is this anyway?
Is it the man or his parents?
That was the question that gets raised in the middle of that.
And I'm here to say that certain philosophies would say, well, actually one or the other.
In fact, Buddhism and Hinduism would both say, hey, both.
And Jesus says, it's no one's fault.
The man's disability is not a result of anyone violating God's will specifically.
Yet in those days, it was common to link sin and disease together.
And friends, that idea is still around today.
It's around in a doctrine that you see out there in various places.
It's called karma.
You joke about it on Saturday Night Live.
It'll be in various sitcoms.
It's out there.
But karma says, is a version of Hinduism, Buddhism,
that basically if you do evil in this life,
you come around again with some punishment attached to your existence.
And Jesus says, none of this is true.
None of this is true.
Jesus is saying, you're created to honor God with this one life.
Your purpose in life is to worship God with your whole being, your whole life, and with all that you are.
And that is a high calling.
Jesus, his theology is expressed in Hebrews.
We die only once, and then we're judged.
So Christ died only once to take away the sins of many people.
But when he comes again, it will not be to take away sin.
He will come to save everyone who is waiting for Him.
Jesus says that He is to be about God's purposes,
to bring the kingdom of God.
And with this miracle, we see a glimpse of God's power.
You see, Jesus took the initiative.
He cleans out the false thinking about illness and sin,
which, friends, we need to hear again today.
Reincarnation is not reality.
You don't trust your spirit to some wheel in the sky and come around again.
And Jesus says, you live once, you die once, and you're judged on this one life.
Jesus, in this situation, takes the initiative.
I find it interesting that Jesus didn't even introduce himself.
He simply spit on the ground, made some mud, smeared it on the man's eyes.
That would make an impression, would it not?
But you know, it sounds so strange to our ears.
But looking at that text, I realized that actually in the ancient world,
there was a superstition around the spittle of renowned people.
And so actually what Jesus is doing was not so far out in their culture.
There was a superstition about the saliva of important people.
Therefore, to put it on his eyes actually made sense.
And then he sends the man to wash.
Jesus, the one sent by God, sends the man to go wash in the pool called the one who is sent.
Isn't that interesting?
There there's a healing.
And from then on, the man's life was changed forever.
And there's three little lessons that I want to pull out of this that we get
when we look at this amazing story.
And the first lesson we learn is that following Jesus produces a testimony.
Following Jesus produces a testimony.
The dramatic healing in this text causes an amazing stir amongst the people,
family, friends, and religious leaders.
Could this really have happened is the question going around in their minds.
Was this really the man?
And a healing brought about fear.
If we acknowledge this healing, we're going to get caught in the crosshairs of the religious establishment.
We become associated with this rabble-rouser Jesus.
We could suffer persecution.
I'm not sure I want to acknowledge that this is happening.
But, you know, those same kind of questions have to hit us.
Will I believe in this miracle?
Was this man really born blind?
Will I decide that whoever can do a miracle like this comes from God?
Was Jesus a sinner as they said?
Will I choose to believe?
What about the consequences?
What about the threats of persecution if I actually take this seriously?
I have to live that out myself.
But for the blind man, all he knows is the truth.
He was blind and now he sees.
That's all he knows.
He can't deny what's happened to him.
Come what may, he cannot hide the truth.
He ends up being questioned by the religious authorities.
And get this, I love this.
He begins to teach the religious leaders.
He's the one who's got the theology down pat.
He's the one that starts teaching them about reality.
The poor, the uneducated, illiterate man makes a mockery of the Pharisees and their worldview.
you. And the more he's questioned, the bolder he gets. The more he's put on trial, so to speak,
the stronger in faith he gets. And listen to this, the uneducated man is now tangling it up
with the Pharisees. I think that's amazing. Well, they slap an accusation at him meant to hurt him
And they say, well, you are his follower, but we're followers of Moses.
The man's an outcast, a loser, on the bottom of the social ladder,
and now he's being called a disciple of Jesus.
The seeing man didn't even know Jesus yet, and already he's a disciple.
And that makes him stronger.
And with an uncharacteristic confidence, he took on the religious leaders and said this.
John 9.30, how strange, he says. He healed my eyes and you don't know where he comes from.
That's bold. That is a bold statement. You see, the seeing man now is beginning to see
even clearer. He suddenly begins to understand that Jesus is greater than these hypocritical
Jewish leaders. They're playing the my master is better than your master game by comparing Jesus
with Moses, and the seeing man begins to expound on something
of which he's an expert, the healing of people born blind.
Not even Moses was able to do that. And you know what, in this
game of chess, so to speak, the blind man calls checkmate.
He wins. Well, they're stuck. So they
brought the argument around full circle. Well, this guy was born into sin
and you can't be teaching us. And so they threw him out.
They threw him out of the synagogue.
Now note the irony.
A few hours earlier, the man was a poor blind man with no hope, no future, no respect,
sitting on the side of the road trying to catch pity from people just to survive.
And after an encounter with Jesus, he's standing before the Pharisees teaching with boldness.
And he won in the end.
Friends, never underestimate the power of a changed life.
Never underestimate the testimony of a person who's had an authentic encounter with Jesus.
It's more powerful than anything they can throw at you.
Amen. Thank you.
You may feel like you don't know the Bible well.
And you may feel like you don't know enough to talk about Jesus.
But friends, if you have Jesus, you have all you really need.
No argument can take away what Jesus has done in your lives.
No argument can take away how Jesus has replaced your heart of stone with a heart of flesh.
No argument can take away how Jesus has opened your eyes to the plight of the poor, the lost, and the hurting.
No argument can take away how Jesus has taken away your hate and your anger and allowed you to forgive.
give. No argument can take away how Jesus has helped you become a more loving and connected
parent, grandparent, friend, son, and daughter. No one can take that away. No argument can take
away how Jesus has replaced your fear with hope and a future. Don't ever underestimate the power
of a life that's been touched by Jesus. And so I am here as your pastor and your friend to
encourage you. Don't let anybody beat you down with arguments. If you have an encounter with
Jesus, you tell it with boldness because nobody can take that away. Your life with Jesus is a
powerful testimony of God at work, and you don't have to be ashamed. Tell the story freely and with
boldness. Lesson number two, following Jesus leads to worship. It leads to worship. When the man
finally understands who Jesus is. He's been a disciple, say the Pharisees, when He finally
understands who Jesus really is, He falls down and says, Lord, I put my faith in You.
And then what happened? He worshiped. Worshiped. I have this image that He fell down on His face
and He worshiped. The eyes of His heart were finally opened. He could see Jesus,
Jesus, Jesus the Son of God. Not just the healer, but Jesus the Son of God. And now this blind man
who was physically in the dark can see reality with his eyes, and he can see reality with his
heart. He can really see. He has real vision of what is happening around him. Friends, when you
decide to really follow Jesus and let His Spirit take over your life, you are drawn into worship.
You can't really help it. You're drawn to worship. Worship is expressing your love to God.
Worship is giving God His due. Worship is an experience of reaffirming the way things really
are, that God is awesome and holy, and let's be honest, we're selfish and hard-hearted.
God is in control.
We're not.
God loves us first.
We love Him back.
Worship reorients those realities in our lives.
What's your attitude towards worship?
Is your heart drawn into worship?
Does something block your interest in worship?
Is there a stumbling block on your journey with Jesus?
because to be a follower of Jesus is to be a pilgrim that delights in worshiping God,
who delights in giving God glory, who delights in giving God honor,
who delights in giving God praise.
That's what a disciple is all about.
This man became a disciple, and he worshiped.
And finally, the third lesson we learn is that following Jesus is about healing your blind spots.
You know about blind spots.
It's when you're about to change lanes, right?
You look in the mirror, it all looks clear.
But you happen to look over your shoulder just as they told you to back when you got your license,
and sure enough, there's a car right there.
Because they were in your blind spot.
There are places where you cannot see.
And if you're not careful, you can cause quite a stir.
I also like those little experiments that you're told how to, you know, like close one eye,
of look at a dot on the page and a letter to the left or right will suddenly
disappear as it hits the fovea in the back of your eye. There's a blind
spot in the back of your retina where the actual optic nerve leaves and if
you find it by doing these little experiments and looking and raising the page in and
out, you can actually watch a letter disappear right off the page.
Go try it. It's kind of interesting. There's probably a website telling you how to do that.
Blind spots prevent us from seeing.
We can have blind spots in our heart as well.
You see, in this story, like most of the stories in the book of John, there's another irony.
The irony here is the blind person recognizes who Jesus is, whereas those with eyes fail to see.
They have blind spots.
The Pharisees had all the knowledge, but they had a blind spot about who Jesus really was.
Their vision was obscure.
They're looking right at him, but they're really not seeing.
Now, blind spots can have a lot of causes.
and a wise person is one that begins to say, Holy Spirit, look into my heart and clean out
my blind spots. Where is it that I'm holding an idea that's not about your kingdom? Where am I
holding a prejudice that's not about what you're about? Where am I holding onto a hurt or a pain
that you want to clear out, and I'm just blind to it? I just don't see it. Sometimes blind spots
come from people who've taught us.
They can come from parents or teachers
or even sermons.
They come from home environments.
They come from your classrooms.
You can get blind spots as people pour into you
the untruths, things that are not of the kingdom
can get rooted in our hearts.
Wise people say,
Lord, make me see, really.
Clear out the blind spots in my own heart.
The Pharisees got hung up on the issue of Sabbath.
It's an important issue.
God actually said that in the Ten Commandments.
But, you know, something good can prevent something even better.
And they missed it.
They missed it.
When you follow Jesus, when you let him into your life, he will show you your false beliefs,
your prejudices, your hypocrisies, the attitudes that hold you back and that dishonor God
and your fellow human beings.
And if you really get honest, you can say, Lord, please heal my blind spots
and allow you to see as God sees.
with his eyes, with his heart.
And when you follow Jesus, your blind spots begin to be healed.
I like what this gentleman, Frederick Buechner, has to say.
He's a Presbyterian, but that's okay.
He can teach us a lot of things.
Listen to what he says.
People are prepared, he writes, for everything except for the fact
that beyond the darkness of their blindness, there is a great light.
They are prepared to go on breaking their backs,
plowing the same old field until the cows come home without seeing,
until they stub their toes on it,
and there's a treasure buried in that field rich enough to buy Texas.
They are prepared for a God who strikes hard bargains,
but not for a God who gives as much for an hour's work as for a day.
They are prepared for a mustard seed kingdom of God,
no bigger than the eye of a newt but not for the great banyan it becomes with birds in its branches
singing mozart they are prepared for the plot for the potluck at first presbyterian
but not for the marriage supper of the lamb isn't that rich are you blind to the miracles that god
is performing in your midst do you settle for second best are blind spots keeping you from
really seeing what God is up to. Do you know what your
purpose in life is? Are you blind to that? Do you know why you're here?
Do you know where you're going? Do you know what life is about? I will say it's about
giving testimony to the greatness of God.
That to know what life is about is about worshiping God and enjoying Him
forever. Life is about being spiritually healed by God
and becoming all that He desires for you.
be all that he wants for you
that's what life's about
living with God's size vision
is what it's about
and so I conclude this morning
I just want you to hear this
this poem by Sir Francis Drake
and may this be a prayer
of yours as well
disturb us Lord
when we are too well pleased
with ourselves
when our dreams have come true
because we've dreamed too little
when we arrive safely because we've sailed too close to the shore.
Disturb us, Lord, when the abundance of things we possess,
we've lost our thirst for the waters of life.
Having fallen in love with life, we've ceased to dream of eternity.
And in our efforts to build a new earth,
we've allowed our vision of the new heaven to dim.
Disturb us, Lord, to dare more boldly,
to venture on wider seas where storms will show your mastery.
Where losing sight of land, we shall find the stars.
We ask you to push back the horizons of our hopes
and to push us into the future in strength, courage, hope, and love.
Let's pray.
Lord, that's what we want to be about.
We don't want to be too safe.
We want to see as you see and have God-sized visions for life
and for ministry, we want to have a testimony.
We want to be people that share that with boldness.
We want our blind spots healed.
We want to be about worship, for that's what you created us.
So, Father, I pray that these truths would sink into our heads
and also to our hearts.
They would germinate within us and sprout.
They would grow us.
Father, may you grow us.
And I pray that you would stiffen us by your Spirit,
to share testimony boldly in this world.
Father, may you bring people into our lives.
As Steve has encountered this mercenary,
may you bring the most unlikely people into our lives.
And may we not be afraid,
but may our testimony and your spirit in us
drive us to share it boldly
and to worship God fully
and to be all about the things
that you want to be about in our lives.
Thank you, Lord, that we were blind, but now we see.
So may these truths become our realities.
We live these kinds of lives as disciples.
Be about your kingdom in a powerful way.
Father, I pray that you would accomplish your purposes today with these people and with me.
Thank you for the testimony of your word.
May it be powerful in our lives.
And I pray that you, Lord, would just move amongst this place as we sing amazing grace.
That you teach us again how much you love us.
How great and good your grace really is.
and if anybody needs to find that grace this morning
I pray that they would give their life to you
and in this, just a simple act of prayer
of saying Lord I'm thankful for what you did on the cross
I'm sorry for my life
where I've been and what I've done
but now I get a fresh start
thank you that you're healing me
opening my eyes to see truth
and it's you Jesus
Father may those prayers happen as you lead
I pray you accomplish your purposes Father
in Jesus name we pray
Amen.
Let's stand and sing this song.
