If only was that a beautiful rendition from those two, but that truth, the walls did come tumbling down, and that's a wonderful praise.
Well, my good friends, good morning, church. It's good to be with you. Soccer season started yesterday. We all know how that goes.
I met some of my students. I'm an assistant coach this year. Some of my kids, a few weeks ago, I thought, oh, Lord, we're going to need Joshua's faith here.
they didn't even know which way to go some had never really seen a soccer ball but yesterday
boy they really came alive and if they can come alive we can revive and come alive god's in the
business of reviving people and churches and doing great things impossible things amen amen
good to be with you i want to share a great story i came across i hope it inspires you
some of you may know this gentleman, some of you may have heard of him. George Danzig was a senior
at Stanford University during the Great Depression years ago. And all the seniors at that time,
they knew they'd be joining the unemployment lines when the class graduated. Can you imagine
how depressing that would be? All the hard work of college to know that you're joining the
unemployment line right away. But there was a slim chance, some knew, that the top person in the class
might get a teaching job. And George was not the head of his class, but he hoped that if he could
somehow get a perfect score on his final exam, that somehow he might be given a job, just maybe.
and he studied. He studied so hard for that exam. In fact, he studied so hard, he showed up to the
exam late. When he got there, the fellow students were already scribbling and taking the test, and
he was so embarrassed, he just came in and slunk down and grabbed his paper and started taking the
test. Well, there were eight problems on the test, two on the board, and so he got through those eight
problems and then he started looking up on the board and began to attack the last two that were
printed up there well he was pretty sure that he had solved the eight but with the two on the board
he could not begin to figure out how to solve them and he knew now that his whole career was over he
was not going to get a teaching job if he could just crack these two he might have a chance and
And so as he turned in his paper, he was so desperate, he took a chance and said,
Professor, may I take another day or two and really work on those?
I think I can get them.
Just give me some more time.
The professor was surprised and granted the request.
So George took that test and he continued after class,
jumped right in and worked on those equations with a vengeance.
He spent hours, but he could only seem to solve one of them after two days.
He wasn't going to get a perfect score.
He lost all chance of a job.
He was so depressed.
It was the darkest hour of his life when he finally admitted defeat
and turned in that test with knowing that one was incomplete.
The next morning, a pounding on his dorm room door,
And his professor of mathematics says, George, George, you've made mathematics history.
Rubbing his eyes, he couldn't understand what in the world his professor was saying.
And his professor began to explain.
He said, I was trying to encourage the class, said the professor,
and so I wrote down two problems on the board that are unsolvable.
Even Einstein could not solve them.
but I wanted to motivate you to keep trying and to never give up
but you came in late and you didn't know that those were unsolvable
you solved one
you've made history
never been solved before
and so he was hired on the spot
to be the assistant to that professor
and George Danzig was professor at Stanford University the rest of his career
beginning with making mathematics history
by solving the unsolvable.
He did the impossible.
I love stories of people doing the impossible.
It's motivating, isn't it?
It's exciting to see how people can beat the odds
and surpass expectations,
break through glass ceilings.
Friends, because of a miracle 2,000 years ago,
you can also break through your own glass ceilings.
You can do impossible things
because with God, all things are possible.
Amen?
And so now I ask you this.
What voices do you hear
that have the potential to sabotage your dreams?
What are some of the God-given dreams
that you may be allowing to die
because they just seem too good to be true.
And you say to yourself,
ah, forget it.
It's impossible.
What are some dreams you've allowed to die
because you believe that somehow God was not interested?
What are some dreams you've allowed to die
because somehow you've come to the conclusion
that somehow that dream is outside of God's ability
to perform a miracle?
You know, one of the men who followed Jesus
One of the men in the band of 12 allowed his dreams to die, Thomas.
Thomas once held a dream that Jesus was God's unique messenger to change the world.
Thomas believed that Jesus was the one that could save people from sin and establish the heavenly kingdom on earth.
Thomas was there from the beginning.
When Jesus chose the twelve to be the mentored by him,
Thomas was one of them.
And so he followed Jesus for three years.
He saw Jesus right up close.
They talked together.
They ate together.
They ministered together.
They laughed.
They cried together.
And they dreamed together.
And they saw people gather
and people become enlightened through teaching
and people being healed from his touch
and multitudes were fed.
They saw it all.
It was exciting.
It was a heady time.
And then it all came to an abrupt end
because the next thing they knew,
Jesus was whipped, beaten,
strung up on a cross,
and he died.
Their king, crucified, dead, and buried.
It was over.
The dream had turned into a terrible nightmare.
And I can just imagine the anger and the frustration and that crushing sense of grief that would course through Thomas' heart.
A few days later, in the midst of his emotional gloom, the disciples come running and say they had seen Jesus.
But dead men don't rise.
It's impossible.
They're seeing a mirage.
I will not get hurt again.
I will not believe this dream and have my dreams smashed again.
I can just imagine Thomas saying that.
In John chapter 20, take a look.
One of the disciples, Thomas, nicknamed the twin, was not with the others when Jesus came.
And they told him, we have seen the Lord.
But he replied, I won't believe it unless I see the nail wounds in his hands,
put my fingers into them and placed my hand into the wound in his side eight days later the
disciples were together again at this time thomas was with them the doors were locked but suddenly
as before jesus was standing amongst them and he said peace be with you and he said to thomas thomas
put your finger here and see my hands put your hand into my wound in my side don't be faithless
any longer thomas believe my lord and my god thomas exclaimed then jesus told him you believe
because you have seen me blessed are those who haven't seen me and believe anyway and jesus
disciples saw him do many other miraculous signs beside the ones recorded in this book of john
but these are written so that you may believe that jesus is the messiah the son of god and that by
believing in him you will have life well over this summer we have been looking at this theme
of daring to dream again and we conclude this morning we're looking at the barriers that hold
us back from dreaming the dreams and going after the visions that god has for us in the past seven
weeks or so you've been thinking and learning these issues number one letting god heal our
painful past if you remember that we looked at how to discover god's present involvement through
a daily god hunt in your life we learned to establish godly goals in pursuing these dreams
that god has for us we learned how to empower what we do with prayer brian shared about prayer
david came and challenged us about our ungodly prejudices hold us back from accomplishing and
being all that God wants us to be.
Ozzie shared with identifying with God's heart for the world.
And last week we looked at moving beyond our comfort zones
as we allow God to move in our lives.
And now it's time to, as we conclude,
to believe that with God all things are possible.
Philippians says, Paul says,
I can do everything through Him who gives me strength.
Church, do we believe that?
or are these platitudes for a nice Hallmark card?
Or is this real life?
When we think about our dreams,
sometimes two obstacles can get in the way.
Get in the way of believing that with God all things are possible.
One is internal, the other is external.
One is doubt, the other difficulties.
Let's take a look at those.
Number one, doubt.
The disciples exclaimed that they had seen the Lord.
Thomas had not seen it.
Thomas wasn't going to believe it.
Thomas wanted proof.
Thomas wanted to feel Jesus' nail-scarred hands and his side.
Thomas is like many of us.
Some of us have had some really bad experiences out there in life.
Some have had really bad experiences with the church.
Perhaps you want to believe, but you need more proof.
You need to see something else.
It's okay to have doubts.
Did you hear what I said?
It's okay to have doubts.
Doubts draw us deeper to discovery.
If we take our doubts and honestly work with them, they will draw us to deeper discovery.
The opposite of faith is not doubt.
Somehow we say, if I doubt or having struggles, somehow I'm not a believer.
No.
The opposite of faith is unbelief.
It's very different.
Doubt is compatible with faith.
Just because you have doubts or questions doesn't mean you have to chuck it all.
Doubt, when taken seriously, draws you to some new discovery as you pursue resolving your doubts.
William Barclay, a great Bible scholar, wrote this.
He said, but Thomas had two great virtues.
Thomas refused to say that he believed what he did not believe.
That's integrity.
Barclay writes, there is more ultimate faith in the man or woman who insists on being sure
than in the man or woman who glibly repeats things which they've never thought out and never really believed.
It's a doubt like that which in the end arrives at certainty.
Thomas' other great virtue was that when he was sure, he went the whole way.
You notice that?
Thomas goes the whole way once he puts his hands in his side.
He seeks after more understanding, more proof.
Doubt drives him to discovery.
And the Christian tradition says that Thomas then went and evangelized India.
He went the whole way.
If you're here this morning and you have doubts about Jesus,
I believe that if you deal honestly with your doubts,
if you seriously embark on a journey of discovery,
that Jesus will meet you there and give you what you need to go forward.
But you have to be honest where you are,
and be honest before God,
and then be willing to search and to look and to seek.
I love it that when Jesus appeared to Thomas,
that he used Thomas' same language regarding exactly what he needed.
Thomas wants to put his hands in his side,
and Jesus comes along and says, Thomas, go ahead.
Put your hands in mine and in my side.
Friends, when you express your doubts, Jesus is listening
and will meet you where you are.
if you have doubts take an honest look at those doubts and may those move you into action thomas
did and once thomas had the reality of the resurrection when he saw the risen lord he went
all the way and responded thus my lord and my god some of you have doubts it's okay i would
welcome you into experience this fall if you have some doubts or questions or struggles or want to
know more about jesus i want you to come explore with me we start our new alpha series on the 21st
of this month sunday evening seven o'clock and i will be involved in leading one of the studies
in that alpha experience i welcome you to come alpha is a place in a community of people to
struggle and wrestle with who jesus is look at the bible look at the evidence look at the experience
in our lives and to share it and to move from doubt to discovery. I welcome you to come and
discover with me together. If you have doubts, come this fall, Sunday nights, to our Alpha meetings
and head those doubts on squarely and see what God will do. I'd love for you to come.
Perhaps you have certain doubts that are keeping you from your dreams. You're too old, you say.
You're too young, you say.
I'm not fully convinced that Jesus is the Savior of the world.
I'm not from a Christian family.
I haven't been to Bible school, some will say.
I don't know how to share my faith in the marketplace.
Whatever your struggles, whatever your doubts, whatever your insecurities, whatever they are,
can you openly share those doubts with Jesus and then with another Christian friend?
Can you say, my dear friend, this is where I'm struggling.
can you help me point me in a direction give me resources help me work from doubt to discovery
if you're honest if you're honest with your doubts jesus will help you deal with your doubts
so if doubt is what's keeping you from believing all things are possible
will you not bring those things to jesus lay them at his feet and seek and allow him
to meet you there i can't say that thomas never doubted again he probably did he probably
struggled down the road in the midst of ministry i know very few christians who never doubt
in fact i don't think i've ever met one that at some point hasn't struggled with doubts that's
part of the journey part of the journey is working through our doubts dr hutton said this
A man or woman who gives up their Christianity, surrenders a life of faith, troubled at times
by doubt, for a life of doubt, troubled by faith.
Which one do you want to really live with?
Doubt is compatible with a life of faith.
Doubt should not be a barrier to accomplishing the dreams that God has for you in your ministry,
whatever that would be.
The second thing, though, that can hold us back from being and doing all that God wants
us to be and do are the external difficulties we encounter sometimes difficulties seem to block our
path the disciples let's look at them for a moment they've seen their king crucified now they're
huddled together in fear the movement is dead religious leaders had killed Jesus perhaps they
were next public opinion is not in their favor at this time let's just say they felt like they were
in a recall behind locked doors locked doors why would that be they're afraid the text mentions
specifically locked doors and then jesus says locked doors are not a problem for me the resurrected
jesus appears in the midst of them locked doors are not a problem difficulties externally are not
a problem for Jesus. To Jesus, no problem is too great. Oh, but the world looked hostile to those
disciples. Things looked grim. Locked doors huddled together, escaping the world, hiding out, fear
running through them. And you know, friends, the church can go down that path as well. It's easy
for the church to begin to believe that the issues in our society are too great, the problem's too
big. Life is just too messy out there. So we huddle. We stay safe and secure inside these walls.
We create our own little Christian world, and we let it all go. I think the church has been
hidden from the world for too long. In North America, the church has hidden from the world
for too long. Why are we afraid? Yes, people who don't know the Lord who are lost act lost.
Of course their lives are messy.
They don't have Jesus.
They don't have the power of the Holy Spirit.
They don't have peace.
They don't have any hope.
But what do we expect?
Why do we expect unbelievers to act like believers?
It's time for us to engage and take territory
and bring the hope of the gospel to the world.
The book of John was written to show us
how the resurrected Jesus is above every circumstance that confronts us.
We have the God of the universe with us.
And with that, we can engage this world, talk to it, and show it Jesus,
and not be afraid, and be right in the midst of people's lives.
In all the chaos that's out there, all the political craziness,
in the midst of all the immorality, all the everything,
We can be beacons of light in darkness.
We don't have to be afraid.
Bob Briner writes this.
Not Rob Reiner.
Bob Briner.
In a book called Roaring Lambs.
I'm just impacted by this.
He says, what I'm calling for is a radically different way of thinking about our world.
He says, instead of running from it, we need to rush to it.
instead of hanging around the fringes of our culture,
we need to be right smack dab in the middle of it.
Why not believe that one day
the most critically acclaimed director in Hollywood
could be an active Christian in a local church?
Why not? Why not?
Why not hope that the Pulitzer Prize for investigative reporting
would go to a Christian journalist on the staff of a major newspaper?
Why not?
Is it too much of a stretch to think that a major exhibit at the Museum of Modern Art
would feature the works of an artist on the staff of one of the great churches in the community?
Why not?
He says,
Am I out of my mind to suggest that your son or daughter could be the principal dancer at the Joffrey Ballet Company
leading a Bible study during the week for all those dancers in an occupation that was once considered morally bankrupt?
Why not?
He says, I believe it's been the pessimistic vision of the church that has prevented generations of young people
from venturing out into the culture-shaping professions of our world.
He says, I have always wondered why could we be so quick to sacrifice our children to become missionaries
but stand in the way of their becoming broadcast journalists, film and television actors, photographers, and painters,
the ones that change and affect the culture around us.
He says it's almost as if we believe that God is strong enough to take care of his own
only so long as they stay within the safety of the Christian ghetto.
And he says that yet the Bible gives us countless examples of people like Joseph
who not only served as an advisor to the president of his day,
but also used that position to influence the entire land.
That's a very different view, isn't it?
We don't need to stay behind locked doors and be afraid because Jesus rose from the grave.
Amen.
The mission is still on.
And the mission is on with even more intensity because individual church members have been given the Holy Spirit.
We don't have to minister in fear.
We can do and be what God wants for us.
we do not have to hide out in the holy huddle
but we can be penetrating this community
with the good news of Jesus Christ
accomplishing far more than you would ever imagine
because God is with you
because Jesus rose from the dead
and that's the good news
so church, you are released
cast off your fear
and get out there
and change the world
You have Jesus on your side.
And I think, church, it's time for us
to start dreaming about a whole new level to go to.
We now have our building.
We have a structure.
We're developing the staff.
But now we need a new BHAG.
You know what that is?
In the business literature,
we call it a big, hairy, audacious goal.
That's what companies shoot for.
Something so outrageous,
something so big that it just motivates and captivates the hearts and minds of the entire
company and they shoot for it and they change their industry by going after that big hairy
audacious goal well let's just change it a bit and call it a big holy audacious goal you like that
we need a new b-hag for fullerton first baptists and i don't know yet what it is but i know we need
something new to strive for something that's bigger than all of us that only with god's power
can we achieve that would stretch us and bring us to new heights we need a new behag and i want you
to be praying that we would not recoil in fear oh what about this and oh what about that and allow
god's dreams for our church to take root in our souls and percolate in our minds and hearts and
motivate us to accomplish what he has for us let's not dream small let's not dream we want
five new families by the end of next year oh of course you want five how about 50 i don't know
500 i don't know what it is he may want us to start planting churches he may want us to start
getting a whole new ministry together i have no idea yet what it is but i want you to pray that
we leaders and pastors hear from God about a new BHAG. We need you to pray. We need you to pray
because I don't want to get comfortable. Oh, isn't this building great? Oh, isn't this air
conditioning awesome? Wow, this sound system sounds great and boy, this is fun. We just sit
here every week. No, friends, it's not about us, is it? It's about them. It's about the people that
don't yet know Jesus and they need to hear it. We got to get a new goal to shoot for that will
rally us and motivate us to go to new heights and stretch all of us and use all of our gifts for
ministry get out of our comfort zones and to stretch and believe and only accomplish it because
god is calling us to it so you pray that we hear from god and get our new big holy audacious goal
what's god calling for you in your own world every god-given dream is possible jesus rose from the
grave that's a miracle doesn't happen that's the power of our god if he can raise jesus he can
empower you for something he can send you off and accomplish something big do you believe it
are you ready for it are you open to it what's god saying what's he whispering in your heart
that's been stirring what would you accomplish if there was no fear of failure we talked about
that what is it don't dismiss it don't put it out of your mind share it confess that with somebody
I just sense God might be trying this
and be accountable to somebody.
Let them ask you about how's it coming?
What's God doing?
Share it.
Define it.
Refine it.
Pray about it.
Confirm it.
And in the words of Nike from last week,
just do it and let God take care of the rest.
In spite of your doubts,
in spite of your difficulties,
just do it.
For his glory, for his sake,
for the kingdom.
Let's pray.
Jesus, revive us, cast out our fear,
cast out our comfort, cast out our desire to be safe
and instill in us a new vision,
a new mountaintop you want us to reach for your kingdom.
And may we understand, not just in our heads,
but in our hearts and in our experience,
the reality of the resurrection of Jesus Christ.
And may your spirit blaze as we've sung through this land
and through this church.
through every heart that's here, and may North Orange County and this state and this nation be
different because of what you're doing in this place. May we rise to your challenge to speak to
us. Lord, don't let us shrink from blowing the trumpets and seeing the walls fall. Don't let us
see our doubts and our difficulties as too big to hold back the kingdom of God. So Lord, bring us
around. Let us see things
from your perspective, and may
we be obedient, Father.
Grow our faith, increase it,
and be glorified.
Lord, you reign.
