I appreciate that song. I'd never heard that one. Wasn't that great? It's an amazing thing how God
can take ancient words and make them current for us, make them very present and life-changing for
us. It's one of the privileges over the years as a pastor that I've gotten to see that in people's
lives, and it never ceases to amaze me. It's good to be in our own church back at Fullerton. I know
for some of you who I don't know quite as well, it might seem odd that here's this member of the
church who hardly ever is here, but I am in other places. Let me share with you a little bit about
the last couple of weeks where we've been, because it sort of tells a story of what my ministry is
about in this phase of my life. Two weeks ago, we were up in Templeton, California. It's the
northernmost church in the American Baptist Church's Pacific Southwest, a church that has
always been small but two years ago was on the verge of closing they were down to about a dozen
people and a new pastor came and the church has been growing again now they were about a dozen
two years ago now they're at about 40 so that's not dramatic but percentage wise that's pretty
good growth one of the interesting thing that's things that's happened there is that beginning
about a year ago they began to see a number of people make first-time professions of faith in
Christ and this last year they baptized quite a number of people if I'm remembering correctly it
was nine which in a church of less than 40 on most of their Sundays nine is a pretty good
percentage they might just get the per capita baptism award in the region next year I was
telling the pastor and God is definitely doing some things within that church and it was such
a blessing to see last Sunday Elaine and I were in Las Vegas and in one of our new church plants
Progressive Pilgrim Church. Progressive Pilgrim came out of a church split with Unity Baptist
Church. Strange that Unity split, but God did something special out of that. The split was messy
and some of the region's staff went in to help and God was really wonderful in the way he worked
in both those two congregations after the split, because at the annual conference last October,
the pastor began to share with me some of what the Lord had done in healing between the
relationships that had been so strained. And what I was there for last week was an ordination service
of five different people in the congregations. It's an African-American congregation, and
they have local ordinations very often in their churches, and that's what this was.
But the two churches came together to ordain these five within their congregations.
And the entire thing was done with unity.
It was a marvelous thing to see what God had done.
And now the daughter church speaks of being the daughter of the mother church.
And that sometimes the labor process is painful.
But God brought forth a new church through it.
And now they're walking in harmony again together.
and what a blessing that was.
Next Sunday, Elaine and I will be in Honolulu.
Aww, you know.
Somebody's got to do it, folks.
But First Baptist Honolulu went through a very difficult time
a year and a half ago,
and we were very concerned about that church,
but they've called a new pastor.
The church is growing again
and is coming back together in many ways,
and I'll be there for that pastor's installation.
They've had a number of baptisms since he came,
and it's going to be good to see what God is doing there.
And so that's a little bit about what's going on within our lives
as Elaine and I travel and as we're absent from you so much of the time.
But we're grateful for your prayer support for the churches across this region
as we seek to strengthen congregations within their ministries.
Now, it's the Sunday before New Year's.
And so I thought I'd bring you something special.
This is not part of the sermon.
I'll even take my watch off so I can see to it
that I timed it correctly. There's a website, and I don't remember the exact letters of this
website, but they give away the Idiot of the Year Award. And they haven't picked out the Idiot of
the Year for 2003 yet, but I went back and I checked 2002. And I thought, well, I've just got
to share this story so that you can be aware, you know, someone's going to get the prize for this
year, but this one for last year really doesn't. It's a true story. It comes out of San Francisco.
a man wanting to rob a downtown Bank of America
walked into the branch bank and he wrote
this is a stick-up
is spelled I-Z
stick-up spelled S-T-I-K-K-U-P
put all your money spelled M-U-N-Y in this bag
while he was standing in line
waiting to give the note to the teller
he began to worry that someone had seen him
write the note
and might call the police before he reached the teller's window.
So he left the Bank of America, and he crossed the street to the Wells Fargo Bank.
The lines were shorter there, and after a few minutes,
he handed his note to the Wells Fargo teller.
She read it, and surmising from his spelling errors
that he wasn't the brightest light in the harbor,
told him that she could not accept his stick-up note
because it was written on a Bank of America deposit slip.
and that he would either have to fill out a Wells Fargo deposit slip
or go back to the Bank of America.
Looking somewhat defeated, the man said, okay, and he left.
He was arrested a few minutes later, standing in the line of the Bank of America.
You can see why he got the award last year.
Well, I'm looking forward to see who gets it this year.
In your bulletin, you should find a sermon note sheet that looks kind of like this
that will help you follow as we study this morning and I'd invite you to turn with me to
the book of Philippians the third chapter where we find our text this morning Philippians chapter
3 verses 4 through 11 Philippians 3 4 through 11 Paul writes there though I myself have reasons
for such confidence if anyone else thinks he has reasons to put confidence in the flesh
I have more.
Circumcised on the eighth day of the people of Israel,
the tribe of Benjamin,
a Hebrew of the Hebrews.
In regard to the law, a Pharisee.
As for zeal, persecuting the church.
As for legalistic righteousness, faultless.
But whatever I thought was to my profit,
I now consider loss for the sake of Christ.
What is more, I consider everything a loss compared to the surpassing greatness of knowing
Christ Jesus, my Lord, for whose sake I've suffered the loss of all things.
I consider them rubbish that I may gain Christ and be found in him not having a righteousness
of my own that comes from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, a righteousness
that comes from God and is by faith.
I want to know Christ and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of the sharing
in his sufferings, becoming like him in his death, and so somehow to attain to the resurrection
from the dead. This morning, I want you to focus with me on how Paul knew he could be certain about
his salvation and suggest to you that there's only one way that you can be sure. Some of you
might be here this morning looking for a relationship with God and you wonder how it
is you can build that relationship. This morning what I'm going to be speaking of is the heart of
the Christian message and I'm going to try to make it as clear to you as I can what is absolutely
unique about Christian faith. I'll show you how you can put your faith in Christ. Most of us here
have known the Lord a long time and I've seen particularly in the last six years as I've been
in church after church after church that one of the great reasons why churches sometimes grow
cold and indifferent and passive in their ministries is that people lose contact with
the central reality of the Christian faith, what God has done for them in Christ. If we keep hold
of that firmly, there is no way that you can become cold or indifferent or passive about what
God has done for you. A number of years ago Elaine and I were in a mall in Lockport, New York where I
used to be pastor and we were going by this little dress shop called the Deb Shop. One of our members
was the manager there and in the window of the shop it said going out of business sale. Well I
was alarmed because I knew the manager Tracy Lanahan so well and what puzzled me though was
it said, second annual going out of business sale. And so I went in and I said to Tracy,
Tracy, how can anybody have a second annual going out of business sale? She said, we got you. You
didn't read it carefully. I looked again, and what it said was, second annual going out for
business sale. She said, that sign is a real attention getter, and I have to admit, it worked
on me. My dad managed a department store when I was growing up, and my first jobs were all working
for my dad. As a 12-year-old, he hired me in the toy department at Christmas time to run the electric
train display. I mean, pay a kid 50 cents an hour to run the trains, and that's a happy kid.
Later in high school, I worked as a stock boy and then began to work in sales, and when I was in
college, I was managing some of his departments, and I absolutely loved working with dad, and
in the store. There were a lot of things he taught me during those years. One of the things he taught
was that in his mind there were only two things that were essential to really running a successful
retail business. And the first one is you've got to get people's attention. And to get their
attention you've got to advertise, advertise, advertise. Young people who deliver newspapers
gain muscles Christmas time because of all the bulk of advertisement that's gone on within our
newspapers. And I can remember Dad going over the ads before they'd go in the paper, and then after
they'd go in the paper. Sometimes there'd be mistakes, and if the mistakes were made by the
newspaper, then we said the newspaper was responsible. If the mistakes were ours, then we
took responsibility for it. But Dad always checked those things. There are some people who should
check their ads. Ran across some advertisements that were rather interesting. This one was a sign
that was in a shop at a mall at Christmastime.
It said, handmade gifts for the hard-to-find person.
This one was a want ad, which I thought was really neat.
Dog for sale.
Eats anything and is fond of children.
That tender meat is just so good.
Then there was a sign that was actually over a counter at a store.
It said, special price, stock up and save.
Limit one.
Well, Dad tried to check the ads to make sure we didn't make mistakes like that.
The second thing Dad said is to succeed in business, you needed to sell what people want.
And to do that, you needed to know your customers.
And one thing my dad really knew was his customers.
I can remember him opening up boxes that were sent to us by a manufacturer,
and he would look at it, he would close it up at times, and he'd put it right back on the truck.
And then he'd tell me that was not the line that I asked for.
That was a lower quality line.
They might be able to fool some people.
They can't fool me.
I'm not going to sell that to my customers.
And back it would go.
And his customers absolutely loved him for it.
There was a loyalty that was there that he built over the years.
Some customers were hard to please, though.
You know, there are always customers that you can't please.
One woman came in, and I'd swear she tried on every pair of women's shoes in the shoe department this particular day.
and didn't see anything she liked, and she finally said to the salesperson,
don't you have anything else?
And the woman said, only the shoes I'm wearing.
She said, well, I like them. Are they for sale?
Some people think of religion as a business proposition.
And you can tell from my talking about my dad that I love the world of business.
But the world of religion is not the same as a business proposition.
People think that if we build up a stock of good deeds,
that then we try to sell them to God in exchange for eternal life.
So it's kind of a business transaction that we do.
Let's see, I made 52 trips to church this year,
and some of those services went more than an hour,
so that's a little bit more.
And I always put something in the offering,
so that's $52 over the course of a year.
There are some people who let that offering plate go by, but I won't.
Of course, I had to make change a few times.
Let's see.
I attended six meetings of the church board.
That really ought to count for something.
And I donated my worn-out shoes and grandma's pink doilies to the rummage sale.
That counts for something.
And I voted Republican in the fall election.
That should count for something.
Okay, Lord, that's a pretty good selection.
You ought to find something you like there, Lord.
Every other religion in the world functions basically like a business proposition,
except for Christianity.
In every other religion in the world,
we say, here God, here's my good works,
I hope there's something that you're going to buy there
and in exchange, I want the gift of eternal life.
There's just one problem.
What if God is not impressed with my merchandise
and he just won't buy it?
In business, your stock is only an asset
if you can sell it.
If you can't sell it and it hangs around long enough,
it's a liability.
That's just plain how it works.
And too much unsold inventory leads to bankruptcy.
So what happens if you and I build up this great stock of good deeds
that we're sure that God will buy, and then he doesn't buy it?
The Bible says that that is our problem.
Isaiah 64 verse 6 says,
All our righteous acts are like filthy rags in God's sight.
And who wants to buy a pile of filthy rags?
Galatians 2.16 says, by observing the works of the law, no one can be justified.
In the passage that we read in Philippians, the third chapter,
the Apostle Paul explains that there was a time in his life
when he thought of religion as a kind of business proposition.
Paul believed that he had accumulated an impressive array of religious stock to offer God.
Impeccable credentials, good deeds,
and he was certain that God was going to buy the whole store
and give him eternal life that's what he's saying in verses four to six look at how he says it
i myself have reason for such confidence if anyone thinks he has reason to put confidence in the
flesh i have more circumcised the eighth day of the people of israel the tribe of benjamin
hebrew of the hebrews in regard to the law of pharisee as for zeal i persecuted the church
as for legalistic righteousness, faultless.
Paul was saying this is where my certainty was based.
This is the inventory of religious goods that I was offering God.
Now, Paul isn't saying this just to brag on it.
Paul was saying, Paul was letting you know that when he eventually says
you can't approach God on a business basis in order to gain heaven,
he's not speaking as a have not who never felt he had anything to offer god who always felt ashamed
always felt that's not paul what paul is saying is that when he came to god to offer his religious
goods to god he thought he really had something to offer he had kind of the nordstroms of religious
goods the mercedes-benz of religiosity circumcised the eighth day that tells you that paul came from
a good jewish family who made sure that as an infant he went through the proper ceremonies at
the proper time of the people of israel says he has the right nationality of the tribe of benjamin
benjamin was distinguished for its its service and its courage and its leadership within israel
he says a hebrew of the hebrews and in that i think what he has in mind is that even though
he wasn't raised in Palestine. He was raised in a home where they spoke the Hebrew language
because they valued it. So he was a Hebrew of the Hebrews. It's kind of the counterpart of those
today who will only read the King James Version because it's harder and it makes them feel more
holy. In regard to the law, he says, I'm a Pharisee. I mean, they were as narrow and as strict
as Baptists any day. As for zeal, Paul says, I persecuted the church. I wanted to exterminate
anything that seemed to be against my faith. And then finally he says, as for legalistic
righteousness, faultless. Paul is saying there is not a law of scripture that I knew of that I
didn't observe. And that was his inventory. And so Paul is coming to God with that inventory and he
is confident that he's going to get the sale. But then one day, as he, Paul, who earlier was called
Saul from Tarsus was on a road going toward the city of Damascus, he met God in a face-to-face
encounter, and he realized that all of his merchandise, all of his religious inventory
looked like a pile of dirty rags to God. God was not interested. God was not buying. As a matter of
fact, it was Paul's very attitude that he didn't need anything from God, that he had something to
offer God. It was that very attitude that made salvation impossible for him. God wasn't buying
it. Did you ever stop to ask what kind of merchandise would it take to impress God enough
to make the deal? Jesus gave us the answer, and that answer is found in the fifth chapter of the
Gospel of Matthew, part of the Lord's Sermon on the Mount. In Matthew 5, beginning with verse 21,
Jesus outlines the kind of life it would take to impress God so much that you could sell your
religious inventory to him so you could go to heaven. And he starts by saying, you've heard
that you shall not kill. I say, don't even be angry with others. You've heard you shall not
commit adultery. I say, don't even look lustfully at a person of the opposite sex. Don't even look
with lust in your heart. You've heard Jesus says that you must get a legal divorce, but I say
divorce was not God's original intention for you. Stay married and faithful for your whole life.
You've heard, Jesus says, that if you take a vow, you should keep it.
I say, be a person of such impeccable honesty that people will never even ask you to take a vow.
They'll know you're truthful.
You've heard, Jesus says, an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth.
But I say, if somebody strikes you on one cheek, turn the other.
And the one that really gets me.
Jesus says, you've heard that you shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy.
I say, love your enemy.
I've always felt that was one of the Lord's most amazing statements
because it violates the English language.
It violates any language.
If you love someone, how can they be your enemy?
If they're enemy, how can you love one?
Those two words just do not go together, but Jesus says, in my law, they do.
And that's what I expect.
And you look at that list of things from the Lord,
and you say, good grief, Lord, what do you expect, me to be perfect?
And then the Lord says, verse 48, yes, be perfect as your heavenly Father is perfect.
You want to know the kind of goods that I'm going to buy?
That's it.
And I look at a list like that, and I look at my life, and I say, no wonder the Lord's not interested.
It's not a pretty picture.
And you see, that's why you can never be certain about your standing with God,
as long as you think of religion as a business proposition.
Your chances of making the sale with God just aren't very good.
Even Paul's collection of great religious deeds looked to God like a pile of filthy rags.
Paul realized that he couldn't sell his stock of good works to God for exchange for heaven.
In religion as in business, if you have a pile of unsold inventory, it's no longer an asset, it's a liability.
And that's why Paul uses business language in verse 7 when he says,
whatever was to my profit, see the business language, whatever was to my profit, all these
religious goods that I've listed in verses five and six, whatever was to my profit, I now consider
a loss. Verses five and six, Paul had pictured himself as man at his best, striving to achieve
an adequate status before God, but his problem was he wasn't depending on God. And you can't come to
God without expressing your dependence on him Paul's problem was his self-reliance and I find
as I talk to people in our country today who tell me that they're not Christians and they don't need
to be Christians that is their basic problem self-reliance and it is taught to us it is
indoctrinated into us by the entire American system and in many ways there's nothing wrong
with it. We need to be self-reliant in regard to the physical things of life so that we're not
always chronically dependent on other people. But if you try to be self-reliant with God
and try to accumulate all your good deeds and offer them to God, well, good grief, you might
as well go to the dollar store and try to buy a Cadillac and see if that works. That's about as
close as you're going to come. I want you to contrast the way we tend to think of religion
in business terms and the way God thinks about religion. God thinks about religion as a gift.
Think of it as a Christmas gift that he gives us that we could never afford to buy. Ephesians 2,
8, and 9. This, I think, if you're going to share faith, your faith with somebody is the most
important scripture that you need to know. It is by grace you've been saved through faith.
it isn't of yourselves it's a gift of God not by works so that no one can boast read a story of an
old Indian who after many years in sin was led to faith in Christ by a missionary and later he was
asked by friends to explain that and so that Indian that Native American took a little worm
and he picked it up and he put the worm in a pile of dried leaves and then he struck a match and he
lit the leaves and the flames began to get closer and closer to that worm and just as the flames
were ready to engulf the word the indian put his big hand into it and got the worm and picked him
up very gently and pointed him out to to the man and then he said i that worm what a picture that
is of the heart of the christian faith what christ did for us on the cross was to plunge himself into
the flames of our lives and to pick us up when we had no hope whatsoever and he did for us something
that we never could have done. God's answer to humanity's needs is not telling us to pile up
more good deeds and wonder, wonder, wonder if we ever have enough to offer him. God's answer is to
plunge himself into our situation in Christ and pick us up so that our lives can change and Paul's
life really changed look at how he begins to think of his his walk with God in verse 7 he says
whatever was to my prophet I now consider loss for the sake of Christ what is more I consider
everything a loss compared to the surpassing greatness of knowing Christ Jesus as my Lord
for whose sake I've suffered the loss of all things I consider them all those all those
things that he had accumulated, I consider them rubbish, trash to be thrown out, stock that was
never bought. I consider them rubbish that I may gain Christ and be found in him, not having a
righteousness of my own that comes from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the
righteousness that comes from God and is by faith. I want to know Christ and the power of his
resurrection and the fellowship of his sufferings, becoming like him in his death and so somehow to
attain to the resurrection of the dead. God thinks of religion as a Christmas gift that he gives us
which we could never afford to buy. And when we truly receive this gift, some things are going to
happen in our lives. The first thing is we're going to be amazed at its value. We'll be amazed at its
value. Paul says, I consider everything a loss compared to the surpassing greatness of knowing
Christ as my Lord. That word, surpassing greatness, is a translation of a Greek word that Paul
invented. He put together two words to make a word that would communicate something that was of such
great value that one would give up everything they had in order to get it. It was of surpassing
value. Paul gave up all of his standing in the Jewish community. He gave up all of his
accomplishments. He gave up all of his reputation. And he said, I do it because of the value
of Christ. I remember a Jewish woman who lived down the block from Elaine and I back when we
were in Pennsylvania. And over a period of time, the Lord allowed me to lead her to faith in Christ.
and when she made that decision and came to faith in Christ she realized that she wasn't sure what
her family would do whether they would wind up shunning her or not but she said I want to live
with Christ it has surpassing value value beyond anything else I remember a young Chinese student
who came to the university that was two blocks away from our church in one town in Pennsylvania
and through the hospitality of one of the women in our church, she accepted Christ.
This young woman knew she was going to go back to China.
Her husband was there.
He was an active member of the Communist Party.
He was an avowed atheist and she didn't know what was going to face her
in terms of her marriage once she got back there.
But she said, I'm willing to give up anything else because I want Christ.
Surpassing value, Paul says.
The second thing we'll find when we truly receive this gift
is it will be eager to know Christ more and more and more.
Paul says his goal was to know Christ Jesus, my Lord.
And by that, he doesn't mean I just want to know about the life of Christ and the events in it.
It isn't just that he wanted to know about the teaching of Christ.
He wanted to know Jesus on a personal level.
It's been a long time now since I first understood what it meant to know Christ.
and all the years since have been time for me to get to know him more and more and more within my
life I want to know the one who plunged himself into the flames of my life to pick me up and get
me started in a new direction thirdly when we truly receive this gift we'll be confident of
our standing before God oh I love this one verse 9 Paul says and be found in him not having a
righteousness of my own that comes from the law but that which is through faith in Christ
the righteousness that comes from God and is by faith what he says be found in him Paul seems to
have in mind the day that he dies and he stands before the judge of the universe and how is he
going to be found Paul says I don't want to be found dressed in my own righteousness as though
my clothing, my righteousness that I took out of the stock of my own store was enough. I want to
be found clothed in the righteousness that comes from God. I want to be clothed in the righteousness
of Christ. Because if I stand in the righteousness of Christ, this is a righteousness that comes from
God. It expresses the character of God. It satisfies God because he made it. And that's how you can have
confidence, friend, knowing that you have put on you the righteousness of Christ, and it's in that
that you're going to stand before God. The Bible says the wages of sin is death, but the gift of
God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. Fourth, when we truly receive God's gift,
our lives will be transformed by his power. In verse 10, he says, I want to know Christ
and the power of his resurrection.
The fact that Jesus rose from the grave on Easter
means that he's alive today.
And the fact that he's alive today
means that his power is at work
in the life of the man or woman or young person
who's really put their faith and trust in him.
One reason why I say Christ is the world's hope
is that I know that when I really began to walk with Christ,
he changed my life, he changed my career plans,
he changed my life priorities, and I am forever thankful for those changes. We're changed by his
power. It's impossible to really know Christ without his character and his love and his power
changing our lives. Fifth, when we really receive God's gift, we'll be willing to sacrifice
for Christ's cause. We'll be willing to sacrifice. In verse 8, Paul had said,
for whose sake I suffered the loss of all things. In verse 10, he speaks of the fellowship of his
sufferings. Think about it. If Jesus suffered when he was in the world for the principles and the
cause of the gospel, do you really think that you can follow him and not expect to suffer?
It makes no sense. Jesus said, if anyone would come after me, he must deny himself and take up
his cross and follow me. In 1978, I had the wonderful privilege of meeting Carl Capon,
a career American Baptist missionary who had been in Thailand and Singapore.
But Carl had first served in China and he went there during the Second World War. It actually
took him six months to get to China during the war because he had to go through South America
and then through India and finally into China where the Japanese army was at that point occupying
China. After the war, when the communists took over, Carl Capon and many of the other Baptist
missionaries remained there. And then just before the Korean War broke out, Carl came home on
furlough. Others were not so fortunate because as soon as the Korean War started, all the American
missionaries in China were arrested. And Carl's good friend Lauren Noren, another American Baptist
missionary was among those who were held in solitary confinement for 18 months simply because
they were messengers of Jesus Christ in China. What impressed me about those two men, Carl Capon
and Lauren Noren, was the quiet strength of the presence of Christ in their lives. They were men
who had known what it meant to walk the road of suffering with Jesus. They knew the fellowship of
his sufferings, and they were numbered among the thousands throughout history who have known that.
Are you part of a cause that's worth suffering for? Are you part of a cause that's worth
sacrificing for? When you really accept the gift of God, you'll know that you are willing to
sacrifice for Christ's cause. Sixth, when you receive God's gift in Christ, you know that you're
going to live forever paul says in verse 11 and so somehow to attain the resurrection of the dead
now when paul says somehow to attain the resurrection of the dead don't take that that
he's still in doubt because he's not what somehow expresses here is paul's humility
that he thought he had it made before god and then he realized everything he piled up was just
rubbish, the greatest shock to him now is that he knows he can stand before God because he'll be
clothed in the righteousness of Christ. His humility is coming out there, but I think also
that the mystery of resurrection, the incomprehensibility of life beyond the grave
are also in Paul's mind, as he says, somehow to share in Christ's resurrection. The first half
of Paul's life was built up trying to earn eternal life. The second half of Paul's life
was a thank you to God for God's forgiveness, for a new start, for a release from guilt,
for joy unspeakable, for purpose, for peace, for all those things that God gives us.
When you really receive the gift, you know you're going to live forever. John Newton was once a
slave trader, and he's better known to us as the writer of Amazing Grace. And John Newton said that
he said when i get to heaven i shall see three wonders there the first wonder will be to see
many there who i did not expect to see second wonder will be to miss many people i did expect
to see and he said the third and greatest wonder of all will be to find myself there
and i think that's the spirit of what paul was saying somehow unbelievably to find myself there
accepted in the presence of God no wonder Newton wrote when we've been there 10,000 years bright
shining as the sun we've no less days to sing God's praise than when we first begun friend
there's only one way to be sure and that's to accept God's gift just like you opened your
Christmas gifts that's what they were symbols of accept God's gift in the spirit that he gave it
the Bible says to all who receive him, to those who believe, he gives the right to become children
of God. Have you by faith in Christ received that right? If you have, enjoy the security of that
feeling because it's not based on yourself. It's not based on your religious inventory. It's
something that God gives you and if you haven't accepted it this is the gift that God wants you
to unwrap and to own for this coming year and for the rest of your life in this world and for all
eternity because it is a durable good it will never wear out and you can unwrap it this morning
as we sing our closing hymn in just a moment if you've never unwrapped the gift and this morning
you want to claim it by faith, I invite you to come. There's nothing I'd enjoy more than just
talking with you and sharing with you. I'll just linger down here at the front so that if there's
anyone who wants to come to receive that gift, you can come. And if there are many, there'll be
others here with me. We invite you to come. Let's pray. Oh Lord God, how can we ever say an adequate
thank you for the gift of salvation. Oh Lord, I pray for those that are here who have already
accepted the gift, that as we've considered what that gift really means this morning,
that its splendor will just burst upon our hearts afresh, and that we might leave this place of
worship lost in wonder before the God who loved us that much, who delights in our feeling secure
in salvation, knowing that it is not of ourselves or of our earning. It is not something that we
deserve. It is something that our Creator gives to the one who believes. And Lord, I lift before
you those who haven't yet unwrapped the gift by faith. And I pray, Lord, that your Spirit will
seal the message of your word to their hearts this morning, that they might take hold of the
gift and unwrap it and place their faith in the one who came at christmas to give to them the gift
of eternal life and that they might go from this place knowing a whole new way of living knowing
that you paid the debt that they could never pay and that their entire life from this day on can
be a life of thank you to the one for whom they were made we give you thanks in jesus name amen
