Well, we continue studying the Sermon on the Mount, and I've really enjoyed this series.
It's challenged me in many ways, and I've read it a number of times, and it was still
wonderful to really dig in.
As we've been looking at this, we all have been discovering that we want to be good people,
and we've discovered that that kind of goodness is found in the kingdom of God, what we're
calling the upside-down kingdom, because it's upside-down to the way that the world
operates.
It's different from the values and the perspectives of our world.
And when you live inside of God's kingdom,
then you evidence that kind of goodness that we're striving for
because it is God who fills you and begins to do that through you.
It's wonderful to live like that.
And so now we continue to look at some topics that Jesus covers
as we look at his kingdom.
The first one is this issue of truth.
And he says in Matthew 5.33,
He says,
Again you have heard the law of Moses says,
Do not break your vows.
You must carry out the vows you have made to the Lord.
But I say,
Don't make any vows.
If you say by heaven,
it's a sacred vow because heaven is God's throne.
And if you say by the earth,
it is a sacred vow because the earth is his footstool.
And don't swear by Jerusalem,
for Jerusalem is the city of the great king.
Don't even swear by my head, for you can't turn one hair white or black.
Just say a simple, yes, I will, or no, I won't.
Your word is enough to strengthen your promise with a vow
that shows that something is wrong.
Now, you've all heard the famous oath that children utter all the time.
Cross my heart, hope to die, stick a needle where?
That's gross.
But in the world of children, this is very important.
When you utter those words, everything stops.
We know this is the truth.
This is serious.
But you also know in the world of children that you can nullify the cross my heart, stick a needle routine by doing what?
Cross the fingers.
See, when you cross the fingers, everything you've just said is out.
And you can do whatever it is you want.
Say whatever you want as long as the fingers are crossed.
That's how the world of children operates.
There are certain rules and certain oaths and certain language
and certain mechanisms to undo some of those things.
Makes perfect sense if you're between the ages of 5 and 10.
Unfortunately, though, adults do similar kinds of things as well.
Sometimes adults use certain kinds of language to skirt around truth,
to say certain things and mean something else.
Sometimes we find ways to undo what it is that we've said.
You see, an oath truly is a solemn statement affirmed before God.
And whenever you're talking about invoking the deity, the truth must be spoken.
In Jesus' day, oaths were a big deal.
Religious leaders were always making oaths and swearing by all kinds of things
to impress people, to validate what they were saying.
They were also famous for finding loopholes, just like the children do today,
the crossing of the fingers. It's the same idea.
And Jesus cuts right through this.
Jesus says, it doesn't matter whether you said certain things or crossing your fingers.
The reality is, Jesus is the truth, and we as his followers must be committed to the truth.
The challenge for us is, so friends, speak the truth.
Yes or no is all that's needed.
Stand behind your words.
We don't need to go through all that other shenanigans.
Be forthright in your character.
Why? Because Jesus is the truth.
See, we live in a culture now that radio and television and film is famous for what?
What's that new profession?
The spin doctor, right?
What does a spin doctor do but try and spin things, certain elements of truth to make
you think certain things, not show you the whole picture?
Tilt the truth to fit an agenda.
No wonder we don't trust each other.
There's always spin in the world.
Which way is this story being spun?
And Jesus is challenging that kind of thinking,
going straight up and saying,
disciples of Jesus Christ are to live differently.
They're to be about truth.
There's a reason for that, too.
Not only is it because Jesus is the truth,
but do you realize that honoring truth honors people?
Do you realize that?
That when you speak the truth, you're honoring the person
as a person made in the image of God
who deserves to hear the truth.
You honor people by speaking truth.
See, in Jesus' day, they used to manipulate people
by swearing oaths and doing all kinds of these linguistic shenanigans.
And it was really a manipulative technique, a manipulative tactic.
And see, it fundamentally flawed because it doesn't honor people.
It doesn't honor people as created in the image of God.
That's not God's ethic.
Dallas Wood has a great quote I've shared from The Divine Conspiracy.
He writes this,
Kingdom rightness respects the sole need of human beings
to make their judgments and their decisions
solely from what they have concluded is best.
It's a vital biological need.
We do not thrive, nor does our character develop well,
when that need is not respected,
and it thwarts the purpose of God in our creation.
Friends, when you live in God's kingdom,
and when you love God and love others as yourself,
to love others as yourself is to respect them
and treat them as creatures made in the image of God
with God's likeness somehow stamped on them.
And you don't treat them as a means to an end.
You speak truth to them because you respect them
and you respect God, who is the truth.
And that's Jesus' summation of this issue of truth.
A challenge for us in a world of spin doctor
to live out truth and to speak truth.
And then Jesus moves on to this issue of revenge.
Revenge comes very easy to the human race.
Robin bought the lovely, revengeful game, Sorry, this past week.
You ever played Sorry?
It's all about revenge.
It's all about sending somebody else backward.
It's about, I'll get even with you later.
You just wait, I'll get you.
That's the whole ethic behind the game.
And it's fun in a cute sense, but when you see bumper stickers like these,
do unto others before they do unto you, that's a little scary, isn't it? Shoot first, ask questions
later. You've seen that. I don't get mad. I get even. You see them on cars and trucks, but they're
saying something. They're saying something about our ethic and society that somehow revenge is
really sweet. I like the story of the Desert Storm soldier that got one of those famous Dear John
letters. It's over. I found somebody else. Not only does she write this letter to this poor soldier
and end the relationship, but she says this, and will you return my favorite photograph of myself
because I need it for the engagement picture in the newspaper. Brutal, isn't it? So how does he
respond? Well, the guy's devastated, and so he goes and talks to his buddies, and they all come to his
rescue. And they go through and they collect all the pictures of the whole platoons, all the guys,
all their girlfriends' pictures, right? They collect them in a shoe box. And he sends them
back to his ex-girlfriend with this note, and I quote, please find your picture and return the
rest to me. For the life of me, I can't remember which one you were. It's brutal, isn't it? Isn't
that our tendency, though? When somebody insults us, we've got to strike back. We've got to get
even, whether it's physically or verbally or otherwise. It's, you know, how dare you hurt me?
You've insulted me. It's coming back at you. The challenge is this. Revenge is very easy to begin
to escalate. One wrong done here, and the return fire is often twice as much. And the return fire
again doubles up again. And very quickly, these things escalate to unbelievable heights. See,
a wrong gets topped by another wrong, and it builds, and it gets bigger, and the madness
never comes to an end. The Hebrews actually had a way to stop that sort of escalation. Their concept
was what has been written as the tooth for tooth.
Okay, you knock out my tooth, out comes your tooth.
Not all of your teeth.
You see, we want to escalate.
We want to get back.
We want to take it to another level.
In the Hebrew concept, it goes even.
Eye for eye, tooth for tooth.
Equal, straight across the board.
That's actually a fairly radical concept
because human nature escalates.
This thing kept it even.
But then Jesus goes even further.
And he writes this, or says this.
Matthew 5, 38.
You have heard the law of Moses says,
if an eye is injured,
injure the eye of the person who did it.
If a tooth gets knocked out,
knock out the tooth of the person who did it.
But I say, here's Jesus,
God in the flesh,
don't resist an evil person.
If you're slapped on the right cheek,
turn the other two.
If you're ordered to court
and your shirt is taken from you,
give your coat too.
If a soldier demands you
carry his gear for a mile,
Carry it two miles.
Give to those who ask.
And don't turn away from those who want to borrow.
That's a radically different way to live, isn't it?
Boy, that really takes that retaliation
and kind of throws it out completely.
See, Jesus has a radically different approach
to the issue of grievance.
And here's why underneath.
Why does he want to say these things?
Because if you've been following the Sermon on the Mount,
the kingdom heart,
one whose heart is filled with the love of Jesus
and for Jesus and by Jesus,
that person has already dealt with their anger,
and as we saw recently, their contempt,
and lust, and absorbing desire, and all those things.
And our lives are not run by those things.
And so when a person is injured,
if you're injured in some situation,
your life is not the injury.
Your life is not absorbed by that event.
See, we have a larger view of our place in God's world,
and we see the person, even if they have hurt us,
as still a creature made in the image of God,
we see the situation through God's eyes
and we see our circumstances in light of other scriptures
that teach these things.
Romans 8.28, we know that in all things
God works for the good of those who love him,
who have been called according to his purpose.
It doesn't say everything that happens is good,
but through those things God is still working,
God is still doing something.
Later in that chapter, Paul writes this
in 38 and 39 of chapter 8,
For I am convinced that neither death
nor life, angels nor demons,
the present nor the future, nor
any powers, neither height nor depth,
anything else in all creation
can separate us from the
love of God that is in Christ Jesus
our Lord. See, when injury
is seen in light of those
realities, we realize
our life is bigger
than the injury.
or the insult, or whatever it is.
I want to be careful and say a few things as cautions,
because I want us to realize that what Jesus is saying here
is related to the one-on-one.
This is between people.
This is an interpersonal kind of situation.
This is not dealing with,
should the police force take bad people off the street?
You see how very quickly that can get misapplied,
and suddenly we're not to do any kind of restraint
of those who would do evil in a community.
This is a one-for-one issue.
This is not about the police and the army and things like that.
And the second caution I want to say is that Jesus is not laying down another set of rules.
It's easy to read Scripture and turn these principles into rules.
He is laying down great principles.
Great principles.
You see, when you're operating in the kingdom of God,
these are the types of things that a follower of Jesus does
because their heart is that close
and is beating on the frequency of God's heart
and that's how Jesus responds
and that's how we respond to things.
You see, you turn your other cheek,
you give your shirt,
you go the extra mile,
you do those kinds of things
because you love the person
that is insulting you and so forth.
You don't rise up and retaliate
and bring things back.
You go a different route.
But if you read these as laws,
it's easy to also see how ridiculous it can get.
You ever been in a third world country before?
you know that you can step out of any restaurant
or club or place or bazaar or whatever it is
and you can have 50 to 100 children and adults
begging for you to give, right?
If you follow the ethic literally to the T
and you give everything, there you'll stand
in the square in a foreign country with nothing left
because there'll be more people that will ask
than you can actually even give to.
Is that what Jesus is asking us to do, is put ourselves in situations and then get stuck in Mexico?
See, I don't think so.
If somebody is breaking into my home, and I wake up and I hear them threatening my children,
does the law that I'm reading here tell me that I'm supposed to just allow that person to beat me up and haul off my children?
Is that what Jesus is really saying?
You see, when you interpret those laws and you get very legalistic,
then suddenly you put yourself in some very dangerous and silly situations.
These are principles, and you're going to have to follow the Holy Spirit in this situation
to know what is the response that's of the kingdom heart in this situation.
And that, for some of us, is tricky because it doesn't give us the game plan every time.
But when you read these things, you realize Jesus is giving us principles of a kingdom heart
and what it looks like.
Martin Luther King took these values
and learned that you can de-escalate hatred through nonviolence.
He learned that there were certain situations where you can do that.
And actually, it de-escalated the situation.
And now there are laws in the books that are just and right
because of these principles put in action.
I love the story of Richard Weaver, a Christian worker,
who learned his living working in the mines.
And he would talk to all of his fellow miners about Jesus.
And some were really impressed and amazed,
and others were just repulsed by his discussion about Jesus.
And one guy says, I'm so sick of hearing about this,
I've got a good mind to smack you in the face.
And in that situation, this gentleman said,
if that's what you want to do, go ahead.
And he did. Clocked him. Knocked him over.
And instead of getting up and fighting, he allowed him to do it again.
At which point, the assailant left the scene and went away.
And the next morning when they went back to work and the gentleman, Richard Weaver, with his blows to his face still evident,
the man who came to him crying and says, will you forgive me for what I did to you yesterday?
Because not retaliating showed this man the reality, the seriousness of that man's faith.
And with tears in his eyes, he said, would you please forgive me?
And he said he would, and he shared with him Jesus one more time, and he became a Christian.
In that situation,
the reality of living that kind of ethic
de-escalated the situation
and allowed Jesus to move in a powerful way.
I want us to hear this carefully.
If we take Jesus' laws,
we put ourselves in very silly and difficult
and even dangerous situations.
When you take them as principles of a life heart,
beating as Jesus' heart beats,
you begin to look for creative situations
and ways to not allow injuries to our life
and define our life.
We look for ways to allow God to work through us.
And if appropriate, refrain from retaliation
and instead to love the other person.
That's where Jesus goes next.
It's beyond just revenge.
He now talks about enemies.
In verse 43, Jesus again says,
You've heard the law of Moses says,
Love your neighbor and hate your enemy.
But I say, says Jesus, to love your enemies.
Pray for those who persecute you.
And in that way, you'll be acting as two children of your Father in heaven.
You see, he says, for he gives his sunlight to both the evil and the good.
And he sends rain on the just and on the unjust too.
If you love only those who love you, what good is that?
Even corrupt tax collectors do that much.
But if you're kind only to your friends, how are you different from everyone else?
See, even pagans do that.
But you are to be perfect, he writes.
It says, even as your Father in heaven is perfect.
Scribes and Pharisees of the day taught you to love your neighbor and hate your enemies.
The reality is the law of Moses did say love your neighbor,
but that hate your enemies part was kind of an interpretation thrown in there that became authoritative.
It was nowhere written that way.
As the text says, loving your friends is easy.
Loving our enemies, now that's a different issue.
We'll serve a loving God.
That's the problem here.
When you serve a loving God who loves everybody, good and evil alike,
and he gives them sunshine, he gives them good waves at the beach,
beautiful snow in the mountains, they get rain, they get sunshine,
they get all the blessings that those who follow Jesus gets too.
If God can do that, can we do that?
See, God loves the man or the woman that is trying to take over your job at work.
God loves the man or the woman that squares off against you on some community issue
and that may speak against you and spread rumors even about you.
If you're a student, you'll relate to this, I hope,
that God loves the other student that ridicules you to your face
and in front of your classmates and persecutes you because of your faith.
You may not like that person.
You may be very angry about that person.
You may be very angry and incensed and insulted by what they've done
and for their persecution of you.
But the reality is that God still loves them, even of the evil deeds they do.
He still loves them and wants them to know him and to be drawn to him.
The highest act of love as a follower of Jesus is not to retaliate, but to pray for them.
And how upside down is that?
To lift them up before God and to say, I don't like them, but God, you love them.
And I pray for their good and not for evil.
That's the kind of people Jesus calls us to be
as kingdom people
that pray for their persecutors.
And our model is even Jesus on the cross.
And I, to be honest,
I can't barely understand or relate to this.
But Jesus, hanging on a cross,
nailed and bleeding and dying,
still says, in all of that pain and agony,
still says,
forgive them, Father,
for they don't know what they're doing.
Can we forgive others?
when we don't believe they know what they're doing?
Can we pray for our enemies even when they persecute us?
Because God still wants to reach them
and do something through them and bring them to himself.
The final challenge Jesus gives us
is that God wants his followers to be mature and complete.
Perfect, says the Bible.
And that word perfect, when you get underneath it
and look at the original language,
it has that idea of maturing, of completing something to the end.
And I'm challenged that Jesus is saying,
you know, in every area of life, you can always go a little higher,
you can stretch a little further,
you can be like me a little bit more.
And all of your life is to be given
in following Jesus and maturing in Him.
And when He finally comes, when we finally meet Him face to face,
we're perfected then.
Oh, that'll be fun.
So I want to conclude with this.
When the Spirit of God, friends, is released in us,
and fanned into fire, when it's fanned into flame,
We begin to exhibit the kinds of behaviors and the attitudes that Jesus is talking about.
It cuts up against our culture.
It cuts up against, in many ways, the way perhaps we've been raised or taught to deal with situations.
But we begin to allow the heart of Jesus to overtake our own heart
and to make it soft and supple like the Lord's, even for the enemies of the Lord.
Jesus said, forgive them for they don't know what they do.
and as we begin to allow that fire to burn in us
and to soften us
and we see our lives as larger than the injuries
or the issues in our life
but to see it from God's perspective
then hopefully our lives begin to embody the truths
in this famous passage I'm going to conclude with
and it's from 1 Corinthians chapter 13
and I want to say it's too bad
that the only times we tend to see this verse
are in weddings
we so often see this verse in light of romantic love
I think that's appropriate.
But I think it goes deeper than just romantic love.
This is a description of Jesus' love expressed through us in the world,
in a variety of circumstances.
Here's what it looks like again.
1 Corinthians 13, starting in verse 4.
Love is patient and kind.
Love is not jealous or boastful or proud or rude.
It does not demand its own way.
Love is not irritable,
and it keeps no record of when it has been wronged.
It is never glad about injustice,
but rejoices whenever the truth wins out.
Love never gives up,
never loses faith,
is always hopeful,
and endures through every circumstance.
It's the kingdom ethic.
It's love.
The challenge is the same as last week.
where is God challenging you to grow
in some area of these issues
of truth, of enemies,
of retaliation, revenge.
And I would just ask again,
how can we help you?
Write us a note.
Give us a call.
Let me know.
Let's spend some time together.
Let's talk about our lives for real
that we might allow the Spirit
to develop these values,
these behaviors.
And friends,
this is life on a whole different plane.
And it's good.
It's not easy.
but it is good.
It's fulfilling in a whole different way.
It's exciting to live like this.
It's challenging.
And deep down you'll know that it's right.
That's how we were created to live.
So let us go there.
Father, I pray,
as we wrap up this message
and look at the reality of these issues in our lives,
that Lord, we'd not make them laws,
but make them the principles that guide us,
and that we live them out in concrete and creative ways
in real situations.
Because we're that close to your spirit.
Because the spirit is that much just filling us up and leading us.
That we become the kind of people that live out these examples that Jesus gives of a kingdom heart.
Help us, I pray, to be these upside down kingdom kind of people.
That by your spirit are released in a community to change it.
To bring peace and truth and love.
where there is discord and pain and sorrow.
And that by these actions, Father,
that the community would know that you are the truth
and would find you.
So help us, dear Lord,
to confess whatever we need to confess,
to give you whatever we have struggled with
and allow you to take us to a new place.
Make us mature, we pray.
May these scriptures become real in our lives.
May we be mature believers
that day by day are getting a little bit more like Jesus.
a little more filled up with his love,
a little more sensitive to your spirit.
And day by day, people will see that you are truth,
you are real, and they would be drawn to you
because of what you're doing in our lives.
Thank you, Father, that you've redeemed us,
cleaned us up, filled us up for service,
and sent us out.
And I pray that Fullerton would be a faithful,
godly community of people that live upside down,
that really live right side up in an upside down world.
May these kingdom values become ours
because they're all about your heart
and your character.
They reflect your goodness.
Thanks for the challenge to a new way to live.
We love you.
We give you praise and honor this day.
In Jesus' name we pray together.
