The speaker quotes Scripture, tells stories, and uses proper punctuation, capitalization,
Well, Fullerton took third in the golf tournament.
We got a trophy, folks.
Thanks to Kent and myself.
I didn't really contribute much, but Jeff Templeton and his friend was a ringer, and we got Jeff.
And we just loaded this team so we could win.
And it's getting personal because, see, South Shores Church, Ty Guy, one of our sister churches, they took second.
and so next year it's really personal
because he's so cocky down there
and I've just wanted for years to just get my little trophy
now that we got the trophy my goal is to beat Ty Guy
so we're going to work at it, you're going to pray
and if you've got any golf skills you let us know
because Fullerton must trump South Shores
God is good and those are fun things
and I hope you can be a part of stuff like that
we're going to have more fun the coming weeks including this morning
because we're going to talk about giving. Isn't that fun? Amen, it is. I believe that giving is fun.
I didn't always think that way. In fact, I used to be very uncomfortable and embarrassed
to talk about money from the pulpit. The scandal of the 80s and all those things tainted my ability
to come at the text fresh
and preach it with vigor.
And I have repented of that.
Here's why.
Because the Bible is on my side.
It's all over the Scriptures.
And therefore, I now enjoy
preaching about money and tithing
and stewardship
because God's Word is on my side.
If you don't like it,
take it up with God.
It's His problem.
In all seriousness, the Bible says so much about a lot of topics.
There are 500 verses on faith, more or less.
There's less than 500 verses on prayer.
But there's more than 2,000 verses on the issue of money and what we do with our money.
Why is that?
Why does the Bible talk so much about our money and what we do with it?
I think the Bible talks so much about our use of money
because the use of our money is reflective of the state of our heart.
Does that make sense?
How we use our money is reflective of the state of our heart.
What our heart beats for is reflected in what we write checks for.
What we get charged up about is what we charge.
Are you charged up about God's kingdom?
If you are, you will give willingly to the Lord.
Your pocketbook is a theological document
because it reflects what's in your heart.
Jesus knew the state of our heart is clearly seen
through the lens of how we use our money, and that's why the Bible talks so openly and freely
about money, and if the Bible talks about money, then I'm going to preach about it because I'm a
biblical preacher. So here we go. First of all, the goal of the Christian life is to live by faith
and to live in obedience to God, and that's a refining of our character that it would be like
Jesus Christ. We are to be like little Christs. Little Christs. And we're to become like God in
our character. We're to live our lives as Jesus would live our lives. Think about that for a
moment. Live your life as Jesus would live your life. If Jesus was born into your circumstances
with your situation, your background, your physical characteristics, and so forth.
How would Jesus live your life?
We want our lives to be how Jesus would live our life.
That is the issue of spiritual formation.
Forming our spirits to be like Jesus Christ.
That our heart would be like the heart and soul of Jesus Christ.
and one of the key issues in becoming more Christ-like
is that we take on his selflessness.
For Jesus, friends, is the image of the invisible God
and he gave his very life for us
and it's God's very nature to give.
If we're going to be Christ-like,
we must become givers.
We must become givers.
We all know the verse
and we need to see it again.
For God so loved the world
that He did what?
That He gave His only Son
so that everyone who believes in Him
will not perish but have eternal life.
Isn't that wonderful?
Amen.
God gave of Himself
that we might have eternal life.
That's the heart of our God.
A God who gives.
If I want to be like Christ, I must learn to give.
Giving makes us like God.
As I've studied this issue of giving,
I realize that giving is more than just transferring money to a church budget.
As I look at the Apostle Paul and how he looks at giving throughout the New Testament,
I notice a variety of descriptions about giving.
He talks about it in terms of a collection.
He talks about giving in terms of blessing,
in terms of a priestly service.
He talks about it in terms of sharing and fellowship
and serving and grace.
And I've come away to realize
that really giving has many textures of meaning,
and yet all those meanings have nothing really to do
with the language of money.
Those words I shared with you come from meaning as it relates to relationship.
Paul looks at giving in terms of relationship.
It's not about budgets.
It's about relationship and the state of our heart.
When we grow, or rather we let grace grow in our lives,
we become more like Jesus, more like little Christs.
and I have to say friends that God has forgiven my sins
he has begun a process of cleaning me up
he has given me the Holy Spirit for powerful living
and I can stand and say that I am incredibly blessed
and I want my life to count
I want to live for him
and I know that you do as well
and therefore you want to be people
that are rich givers
like the character of our God
it's a thrill to live a life for the Lord
and giving becomes part of that journey
friends are we getting motivated are we getting a little bit excited
because we've got to really embrace this
and I hope that my yelling and ranting and raving gets you a little bit excited
to take a journey with Christ in terms of giving faithfully
and abundantly from your hearts
I hope the Spirit captures your spirit today.
There's a lot of reasons and a lot of motivations for giving.
And I'm going to explore those this morning.
The first one, starting from the lowest form to the highest.
There's a motivation we can lay out there for giving.
The first one is guilt.
I can just lay big trips on you.
and we can give out of guilt.
It's the most base level motivation.
You do it because you have to do it.
Usher comes by, that plate comes by,
you haven't put anything in it,
and if I've guilted you effectively,
you'll think something like this.
He knows I haven't put anything in in three months.
He keeps coming to my aisle.
All right, fine, just make him go away.
fine here's 20 bucks it's in I've done it now go away ha it's over we can do
that I can send the ushers to come back to you over and over we can do all kinds
of things the problem is friends that guilt-giving is not biblical it's not an
attitude that Scripture elucidates in any way notice this verse 2nd Corinthians
chapter 9, verse 7. Paul says, you must each
make up your own mind as to how much you should
give. Don't give reluctantly or in response to
pressure, for God loves the person who gives
cheerfully. It's not about guilt. Giving
is supposed to be cheerful. At least do it
with a smile. How often do you smile when the plate comes by?
Let's be honest.
We're a little bit dour about giving around here.
It's kind of, there it is, pass it on by.
What if we were to just get excited?
And maybe in your own place, in your own pew, just say,
thank you, Lord, for all that you've given to me.
Here we go.
Wouldn't that be different?
With a smile.
It's supposed to be fun.
Now, the good thing about guilt giving is the money still comes to the church.
You see, it still comes in.
Whether you give it with a smile or out of guilt, it still comes in.
It still pays the bills.
That's the strength of guilt giving.
And let's be honest.
The reality is it takes money to keep this going.
It really does.
In fact, it's something like $12,000 a week to make this place hum and run to bless people, including yourselves.
That's a lot of money.
That's why we need to give.
And if you give out of guilt, we'll still take it, all right?
But it's the lowest form.
It's not a biblical way to give.
And I want you to rise out of guilt giving and give out of your heart and with joy
because you want to be a blessing to the Lord because the Lord has been a blessing to you.
You see, the problem with guilt giving is it's joyless.
it produces no spiritual fruit in your life
it doesn't show any progress as we try and chip away
at materialism in our culture it doesn't do anything to our spirit
really it doesn't do anything and perhaps
except make you bitter we'll take your money
but you'll leave bitter that's not a good thing
and it's not biblical and that's not of god
So guilt is out.
Next level, we'll step it up one.
Another motivation for giving is responsibility.
And there's a passage I'd like to share with you from 2 Corinthians 8.
If you'd like to follow along in your Bibles or watch the screen,
we're going to read this one section, verses 1 to 15.
Paul writes,
Now I want to tell you, dear brothers and sisters,
what God in his kindness has done for the churches in Macedonia.
Though they have been going through many trouble and hard times,
their wonderful joy and deep poverty has overflowed in rich generosity.
For I can testify that they gave not only what they could afford, but far more.
And they did it of their own free will.
In fact, they begged us again and again for the gracious privilege of sharing in the gift for the Christians in Jerusalem.
Best of all, they went beyond our highest hopes,
for their first action was to dedicate themselves to the Lord and to us for whatever directions God might give them.
So we have urged Titus, who encouraged your giving in the first place,
to return to you and encourage you to complete your share in this ministry of giving.
Since you excel in so many ways, you have so much faith,
such gifted speakers, such knowledge, such enthusiasm, and such love for us.
Now I want you to excel also in this gracious ministry of giving.
I'm not saying you must do it, even though the other churches are eager to do it.
This is one way to prove your love is real.
You know how full of love and kindness our Lord Jesus Christ was.
Though he was very rich, yet for your sakes he became poor,
so that by his poverty he could make you rich.
I suggest that you finish what you started a year ago.
For you were the first to propose this idea
and you were the first to begin doing something about it.
Now you should carry this project through to completion
just as enthusiastically as you began it.
Give whatever you can according to what you have.
If you are really eager to give,
it isn't important how much you're able to give.
God wants you to give what you have, not what you don't have.
Of course, I don't mean you should give so much you suffer from having too little.
I only mean that there should be some equality.
Right now, you have plenty and can help them.
Then at some other time, they can share with you when you need it.
In this way, everyone's needs will be met.
Do you remember what the Scriptures say about this?
Those who gathered a lot had nothing left over,
and those who gathered only a little had enough.
In that passage, Paul is describing
the giving of the Macedonian Christians for the Christians in Jerusalem.
And as you can tell from this passage, the Macedonian churches were extremely poor.
But they begged Paul. I love that.
They begged him, can we give to our brothers and sisters in Jerusalem?
And Paul says that their heart is evidence that their hearts were totally sold out
and full of the love of the Lord.
And so Paul wants the Corinthian church
to be excellent in that area of giving as well.
You see, giving is one channel
where as we give to the Lord,
the Lord uses that to bless others.
That's how we can bless others.
And God wants us to excel at that grace of giving.
It's part of our responsibility as Christians
to support the ministry of the churches
and the churches begin to bless others
as well as ourselves.
The church can bless in a variety of fashions.
It's a teaching place, teaching the scriptures.
It provides resources for the hurting and the broken.
It provides avenues for outreach and evangelism and mission.
The church blesses many people, and I trust that he's blessed each of you as well.
And that's to be a motivating factor.
We should want to do our part.
We should want to continue to receive the blessings from this place
and have others receive it as well.
We do have a responsibility to give as brothers and sisters
that the church continues forward.
And you know this statistic.
I share it with you again.
It pains my heart.
But the reality is across our land, across the great United States of America,
still this is true.
that 20% of church members give 80% of the resources.
In business terms, we call it the 80-20 rule.
And unfortunately, it's true in business.
20% of your salespeople will give 80% of the business.
20% of your leaders will take care of 80% of the production.
And sadly, the church has the same statistic.
20% of the people give 80% of the resources.
Why should the church copy the world?
Why should we copy the world?
Why don't we be different and say 100% of our people give 100% of the resources to be different?
To be different.
In our church, we're actually better.
We're 70-30.
We can get better.
We can do better.
And here's one more sad statistic.
50% of church attenders don't give one penny to the kingdom of God at all.
Yes, friends, we have a duty to give.
It's not a good motivation.
It's a little better than guilt, but there's still so much further we can go.
But the reality is we need to give to continue the blessing of this place
that it might bless you and others.
The strength of giving out of duty, the money still comes in.
Praise the Lord for that.
And responsibility is an admirable trait.
If you're giving because it's the right thing to do, praise God,
you're moving forward in your motivation for giving.
The weakness, however, is it still can limit your joy
because giving out of responsibility still doesn't ignite the fire of the heart.
Giving my wife treats on Valentine's Day
because Hallmark told me I have to do it
doesn't really fuel my fire, does it?
And you know what?
It doesn't fuel hers either.
But when I give because I want to,
because I love her,
because I want to bless her,
and my love given to her blesses me back and others,
that's wonderful because I love her.
I give because I want her to be blessed.
When we give out of responsibility, we can get legalistic about it.
I already gave.
That's it.
One more appeal.
Sorry, I've done my duty.
It's the wrong heart.
We get finicky.
And still our hearts aren't soft to what God wants us to be doing.
Let's go to the third motivation for giving.
Giving to needs.
The third step up.
It's the idea that I see this need in the church.
I'm going to give to that because I like that.
Ooh, I love that ministry.
I'm doing that.
I love the youth department.
Man, they get my dollar.
2 Corinthians 8.
If you're really eager to give, it isn't important how much you're able to give.
God wants you to give what you have, not what you don't have.
Of course, I don't mean that you should give so much that you suffer from having too little.
There should be some equality.
Remember this verse.
Right now you've got plenty, and you can help them.
We give that everyone's needs are met.
Yes, the reality is we do want to give that needs are met.
But here's the issue there.
At different times, we all see different needs to be met.
And sometimes you'll see a need and realize that the church isn't doing something about that.
And you get motivated to serve and to give in that area.
And that's wonderful.
And that's a legitimate issue.
And the strength is when you see needs and you give to meet the needs, the needs are met.
That's a good thing.
However, if everyone gave just to needs that they saw, we'd still close down.
Because we don't all see all the needs accurately.
I realize, I realize in the age of suspicion of institutions,
and it's easy to mistrust government and big corporations.
Look, Enron, you're all wondering, is corporate America just going down the drain?
And it makes me wonder.
And with the scandal in the churches, you know, in a contemporary context and in the past,
you begin to wonder, is this a crock?
And the government just blowing pork barrel spending.
I mean, we wonder, whom do we trust?
Trust the Lord.
I used to want to give to projects only as well.
I used to only want to give to projects because I could see my dollar immediately gratify a need.
And that made me feel better.
Because I'm not sure I trust those leaders and all that other stuff.
But I want to see that need met.
And I used to give like that.
It's interesting now leading the church, the different perspective that I now have.
Because we all have our passions.
We all have our certain ministry that we favor over others.
And let's be honest, many of us could care less about electricity, copy paper, liability insurance, and toilet paper until it's not there.
Right?
Who cares about the boring stuff until it's not there?
And then we're up in arms.
See, as we manage the church, we try and delegate monies to those different places
so that wherever you are, by the copier, it's there.
That we pay the insurance that in case somebody falls down, we can cover that, take care of you.
Toilet paper you can figure out on your own.
If you gave only to special needs, we would close down
because we just don't get motivated on those bland everyday issues.
Heating and air conditioning doesn't sell.
Who wants to pay for that?
But we need it.
Because when the basketball league is cranked up and it's 99 degrees and swampy in there,
nobody wants to come.
And you don't want to be in there, and neither do I.
And so we pay Edison to cool it down.
And thank God that we do.
Makes ministry a lot easier.
We must give to the church because the church is the heart of God's plan for reaching the world.
Even in the mundane parts of the church, it's still part of the bigger mission.
Because through the church, the gospel is spread.
Through the church, we reach the hurting.
Through the church, we win the lost.
As well as dealing with the mundane realities of water, paper towels, heating, and cooling.
It's all in there.
We can give to needs, but let's go even further up.
Let's give out of thanksgiving.
2 Corinthians 9.
You know how full of love and kindness our Lord Jesus Christ was.
Though he was very rich, yet for your sakes he became poor,
so that by his poverty he could make you rich.
What's that implication?
God has given so much to you,
and out of gratitude, out of thanksgiving,
we are to give back to the Lord.
The strength of this position is it blesses the giver and the receiver.
You see, God blesses those who give and remove that selfish root when you give out of thanksgiving.
The weakness of this is, friends, sometimes we're not always aware of all of our blessings, are we?
If we only give out of the recognition of our blessings when we're having a hard time in life,
it's easy not to see the blessings.
And therefore our giving only goes on our emotional roller coaster
of how we perceive blessings.
But friends, it's still better to give out of thanksgiving and obedience
so we don't let our heart only dictate when we feel like giving.
But I want you to realize this.
Even if your life is difficult today or has been or will be in the future,
we have a great God, we have a great church, we have a great
vision for this church, we've got a great building, we've got great people,
we've got great passion for the Lord. These are good things.
And whether your life feels emotionally up
or down, God is doing great things around here.
And sometimes you may not see it because what one person
over here gives ends up translating to somebody back here
but you may not know it.
But we as staff are dealing with all of you
in different ways and in other places
and things happen outside of your own understanding
and you have to trust us.
But I also want you to give
because you know that God has blessed you
and you want to give back.
Even if you don't feel like it,
friends, you have your salvation.
You have a community.
You have so much.
You have so much.
But let us go to the final, I think the best motivation for giving,
and that is to worship the Lord.
2 Corinthians 8, you saw this earlier.
They begged us again and again for the gracious privilege of sharing in the gift for the Christians in Jerusalem.
Best of all, they went beyond our highest hopes,
for their first action was to dedicate themselves to the Lord and to us
for whatever directions God might give to them.
Oh, friends, to worship, to say, Lord, you are worthy, you're worthy.
Take my everything because you're worthy.
When you give from that motivation, when your heart gives to worship God,
it is a blessing to you it is a blessing to the kingdom you become obedient and when you are
obedient there is power and strength in being obedient and it becomes fun to worship god it
becomes fun to give and allow god to use your gifts for whatever he wants but you're giving
because he's great and wonderful and awesome.
Oh, that we might be givers out of worship.
To give because God is worthy
and to give out of worship.
We can give from guilt.
We can give out of responsibility.
We can give to needs.
We can give out of thanksgiving.
Or we can give out of worship.
Which motivates you today?
Where are you on the scale in your giving?
Which one do you want to motivate you in the future?
What is the next step to make that a reality?
Let me conclude by this.
Let us be the church of God, trusting God with our lives and our finances,
believing that God will use our gifts to further His kingdom,
to shape our lives like Jesus
and to further His purposes in the world.
If you believe that,
I would challenge you to give out of worship
and let the Lord bless you and bless this place
and you will see amazing things happen
when you give out of worship.
Let's pray.
Father, may we be a faithful community
because You have been faithful to us.
You have never let us down.
And so, Lord, we give out of thanking you for all that you are,
for who you are, for your character,
and we do it, Father, to bless you.
And then, Lord, may you take all of our gifts, our tithes,
all that we give, and may you multiply those things,
and may you spread that blessing around.
So, Father, we trust you.
We trust you that you will take care of us if we give more than we're used to,
but you've always been faithful.
So stretch us in our area of trust.
And stretch us, Father, in the area of our hearts and our motivation.
Take us to a new level.
Take us up a couple notches, Lord.
Refine us and mold us and make us more like your son.
Our gifts are yours.
We are yours.
And we love you.
In Jesus' name, amen.
