One thing I hope that you have felt as Kirk has been going through the spiritual gifts that we've discussed so far
is a kind of a light bulb going on inside of your heart or your head, a kind of aha moment.
That's a really great feeling when someone describes the thing that you've always thought but never knew quite how to express.
And it means that these ideas are already beginning to take root in your heart and in your head.
You see, if you're getting a clearer picture
of who you were meant to be in this body of believers,
that is fantastic.
That is earth-shatteringly great.
But if you still find yourselves confused
about exactly where you fit,
hmm, if you still find yourselves thinking,
oh, I wish I had that gift.
Like I, for example, find myself thinking,
ooh, I wish I had the gift of administration.
Life would be so much easier
if I had the gift of administration.
And for a few minutes while Kirk was discussing that,
I was sitting back there eating my heart out,
wishing that God had blessed me with the gift of administration.
Now, others of you might find yourself thinking,
you know what, I really wish or maybe ought to have this gift called hospitality.
I think I ought to be the kind of person who can open up my home at any hour,
any time, no matter how much of a disaster it is.
But, you know, deep down,
I know that unexpected visitors drive me absolutely batty.
And I know that I force a smile,
and I know that I serve up that last slab of cheesecake
that I was saving for myself.
In other words, hospitality just does not come naturally to you.
Now, don't misunderstand me.
I'm not saying that if you're a non-administrative type
that you have license now to be hopelessly unorganized
and just a complete disaster.
And I'm not saying that if you don't have the gift of hospitality,
you're being given permission by God to be Ebenezer Scrooge
and just shut out the whole world.
God requires that we plan and we organize
and that we be faithful stewards of our lives.
And he also requires that we exercise kindness and generosity
and, yes, you guessed it, hospitality.
That is a survival skill.
That is God's will for all believers.
But what I'm saying, though, is this.
When you find yourself wondering what your spiritual gifts are,
don't be discouraged when that knowledge does not come easy.
They're not always immediately obvious.
I've said this morning that we often get hung up
and maybe even a little jealous,
wishing that we were something that we're simply not.
Or worse, if we're especially gifted in one area,
we unrealistically expect everybody to be gifted in that area.
It's easy, right? All this stuff should come easy.
I mean, what's the big deal?
Praying for hours on end, evangelizing entire neighborhoods,
planning a luncheon, or, you know, working with junior high school students.
I mean, what is your problem that you cannot handle junior high school students?
Come on, it's easy.
And on that note, on this note of gift projection, we have a skit this morning.
It's about the pitfalls of every church
and their big annual or biannual or tri-annual push for volunteers.
And it's called Anyone Can Do It.
It's funny, and it makes its point pretty clearly.
Hello there.
Didn't mean to startle you.
Oh, it's okay.
I just didn't see you behind the table, that's all.
I was just getting some more packets out.
Well, great, because I'm trying, you know, looking for ways to get involved in church, so.
Excellent.
You new to the church?
Yeah, I've been coming for a couple months now, but I really want to get involved, so.
Good, good, good, good, good, because you have come to the right place at the right time,
because today is Volunteer Recruitment Sunday, you know.
Yeah, I can see that.
You can consider me your personal volunteer coordinator. Why?
Right here, I've got the goods on every open position in every single ministry that we have.
You just tell me what you want to do, and I'll plug you into any open slot.
Well, great, because, you see, I've always been interested in...
The nursery, well, we always have openings in the nursery.
Groundskeeping, Saturday Evangelism, Women's Prayer Circles.
Well, I thought it might start kind of slow, you know, maybe help out with Sunday school or something.
I was thinking the fourth grade. Do you have any openings for fourth grade?
Let's see, fourth grade, fourth grade, fourth grade. Sorry, nope, not on the fourth grade.
Oh.
But I do have something for you I think you'd really like.
What's that?
Junior high canoeing.
Okay, here's the book.
Oh, my goodness.
Here's your life jacket and sunscreen.
We don't want you to get burned out there, you know.
Right.
Now, you just go out back behind the gym.
You can pick up the canoe there.
What?
You're kidding me.
I have to take the canoe home?
You just strap it on the top of your car.
It's a piece of cake.
Okay.
Come on.
Anybody could do that.
Now, how about something else?
what else can I interest in? Let's see. Well, if fourth grade isn't available, how about third
grade? Third grade, third grade, third grade, third grade. Sorry, nope, not on the third grade.
Oh. But I got a great position coordinating all of the overseas missionary coalition. What do
you think of that? I'm not so sure about that job. All right, let's see. Here we go. Oh my goodness.
Here's the file right there.
That's got all the contacts, all the phone calls that you have to make,
where everyone is located across the world.
And then we've got to transfer all this onto our new church software program.
So here's some CD-ROMs.
It's got everything you need.
Oh, my goodness.
Okay?
I don't think I can do this.
Oh, come on.
You'd be perfect.
No, really.
This is too much.
I don't look here we have the official ministry or missionary coalition volunteer t-shirt right
there you've got it what makes you think I'd be so good at this job well you got the t-shirt
I don't know oh come on look anybody can do that okay excellent well I mean as long as we're on a
roll here filling slots what else can I help you with how about fifth grade do you have an opening
for fifth grade? Fifth grade, fifth grade, fifth grade, fifth grade.
Uh-uh. Nope. Sorry, not on the fifth grade. Are you, sir?
Can you check again? I don't have to check again. It's all right here.
No fifth grade. But look, I do have a gem of a position right here for you.
What's that? Oh, that would be chairing our
annual church 10K run. 10K run? Are you nuts?
I can't even run around the block, let alone run a 10K.
You have our official church headband.
That's disgusting.
I washed it.
Oh, my goodness.
Look, this is too much.
No, no, no, no, no.
Anybody can do that.
Anybody can do that.
Well, I'm sorry.
I'm not anybody.
I can't run a race or run a mission or paddle a canoe.
I just want to help out at Sunday school.
Here, your CDs and your book and sunscreen and all your other stuff.
I can't handle this, okay?
I'm sorry.
Wait a minute.
Look, I'm sorry.
I didn't mean to get upset at you.
It's all right.
Look, I'm sorry, too.
I guess in all my enthusiasm to try to fill slots,
I guess I kind of lost track of what my real purpose is.
What's that?
Well, I'm supposed to try to help people find out what their spiritual gifts are
and then plug them into the right ministry.
Well, look, here's my number.
If something opens up for fourth grade, why don't you go ahead and give me a call?
Fourth grade.
Yep.
All right.
Okay, I'll do that.
Thanks.
Hey, how did you get hooked up doing this anyway?
They said anybody can do that.
I'm bored with this thing on.
Wires hanging out of my body.
Today we're going to talk about some other gifts
that not just anybody can do.
These are the blue gifts in Kirk's scheme of things.
These are the power gifts.
And he gets this knowledge, in case you're interested,
from a guy by the name of Christian Schwartz whom he is doing his
doctoral studies with at Fuller Theological Seminary. So a lot of the information
comes from this man. If you want to read more about what this guy has to say
about a broad expanse of possibilities for spiritual gifts
I suggest his book, The Three Colors of Ministry.
The power gifts. I'm going to give you a real simple definition
of what these are. These are gifts that show the hand of God
moving supernaturally in human affairs.
These are things like miraculous healing
and prophecy and exorcism of evil spirits.
Now, don't misunderstand me.
I'm not trying to say that gifts like administration,
which I don't have, we've discussed this,
or mercy or shepherding
are somehow less divine
than gifts like healing or deliverance from demons.
A lot of genuine prophets
and a lot of genuine exorcists
Look at something like the gift of administration, for example,
and they think that's impossible, I could never do that.
I could never plan a luncheon.
I don't even know where the salad fort goes.
But I can cast out devils, just ask me to do that.
To them, that kind of thing is as impossible
for a differently gifted person as raising the dead.
So let's make one thing absolutely clear from the get-go
as we talk about these supernatural gifts.
Gifts of miraculous supernatural power are not,
and I repeat, not more divine in their origin
than supernatural gifts that don't apparently involve miracles.
In other words, if you have gifts like helps and teaching
and hospitality or artistic creativity,
any of the gifts that Kirk has covered in the past two weeks,
then you are not a second-class citizen in God's kingdom.
There are no, no second-class citizens in God's kingdom.
And I say that because way too often
Churches come up with unwritten or sometimes even written documents
that try and parse and separate out who is truly anointed of God
and who is kind of muddling and struggling their way through.
If you have this gift, it clearly means that God, you know, is in your back pocket.
But I say, and the Bible teaches, I believe,
that all gifts of God are driven by the same power.
They have the same source, the same source that causes,
raising from the dead causes somebody to have the gift of leadership or helps or mercy as paul says
it was he who gave some to be apostles some to be prophets some to be evangelists and some to be
pastors and teachers to prepare god's people for works of service so that the body of christ may
be built up until we all reach unity in the faith and in the knowledge of the son of god and become
mature, attending
the whole measure of the fullness of
Christ, then we will no longer
be infants, tossed back and forth
by the waves and blown here and there
by every wind of teaching and by
the cunning craftiness of men
and their deceitful scheming. Instead
speak the truth in love.
We will in all things
grow up into him who is the head
that is Christ.
For him the whole body, joined
and held together by every supporting
ligament, every gift,
grows and builds itself up in love and each part does its work again quoting paul there are
different kinds of working but the same god works all of them in all people now each now to each one
the manifestation of the spirit is given for the common good not for the glorification of one
to one there is given through the spirit the message of wisdom to another the message of
knowledge by means of the same Spirit, to another faith by the same Spirit, to another gifts of
healing by that one Spirit, to another miraculous powers, to another prophecy, to another distinguishing
between spirits, to another speaking in different kinds of tongues, and to still another interpretation
of the tongues. All these, all these are the work of one and the same Spirit, and He gives them each
one just as he determines, just as he determines. The body is a unit, though it is made up of many
parts, and though all its parts are many, they form one, one body. So it is with Christ. It all comes
from God. And in the best of circumstances, it's all used for God. In fact, realistically, the only
thing that sets miraculous gifts apart from the rest is really how we've been conditioned as
perhaps Americans, perhaps even as Baptists, to look at them.
We look at the gift of leadership, for example.
Let me just take this as an example.
And we see it in evidence and we think,
now that guy, that guy is a born leader,
or that woman is a born leader.
He's like his father, he's a chip off the old block.
And leadership in our minds becomes something like a genetic trait,
like saying, oh, she has her mother's eyes.
Also, we call people born leaders no matter what kind of organization
that they wind up working in.
If they're the leader of a corporation or a soccer team or a platoon or a brigade
or even an organized crime syndicate, they're still born leaders.
Tony Soprano, to the American public, is a born leader.
Going back a generation, Michael Corleone is a born leader.
But what I've never heard anybody say, and this is important,
is that she has a natural talent for making cancerous tumors
miraculously disappear when she prays.
No one says that.
because when that sort of thing happens,
God, rightly, gets the credit.
That is something that only he's capable of
and all of us are humble enough
and realistic enough to admit that.
But if you think about it and just really think,
a born leader was given every tool,
every advantage of his or her upbringing,
every ounce of wisdom, every hard knock,
every hard lesson, every opportunity in life,
every ounce of character strength that it takes
to lead, not just by genetics, but by the grace of God, who is master of everything, according to the
plans of God. In Proverbs, it says, in his heart, man plans his course, but the Lord determines his
steps. There's nothing outside of God's control. Nothing, no character trait, no gift that develops
in a human being that isn't given and controlled and intended by God for his good purposes. And
that's the same God who makes natural leaders who cures incurable tumors. And that's really what I
want to say as kind of a prelude to these gifts of power. Now, I also want to say that spiritual
or supernatural gifts, quote-unquote, can be abused, just like leadership can be abused.
Whether a leader or administrator glorifies God with his ability is his own choice. And there's
something that really might make your head spin. The same is true for people who are gifted in
the power gifts. They can be as fraudulent and as self-serving as any leader. And Jesus pretty
much spells this out. Watch out for false prophets. They come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly
they are ferocious wolves. By their fruit you will recognize them. Do you think, do people pick
grapes from thorn bushes or figs from thistles? Likewise, every good tree bears good fruit, but a
bad tree bears bad fruit. A good tree cannot bear
bad fruit, and a bad tree cannot bear good fruit. Every
tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire.
Thus by their fruit you will recognize them. And this is the
important part. Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord,
will enter the kingdom of heaven, but only he who does the will
of my Father who is in heaven. Many will say to me on that day,
Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name?
And did we not drive out demons and perform many miracles?
And then I will tell them plainly,
I never knew you.
Away from me, you evildoers.
The apostle, the great missionary Paul,
a gifted man, a church planter,
a man who moved in miraculous signs,
says something similar.
He says,
And now I will show you the most excellent way.
If I speak in the tongues of men and angels
and have not love,
I am only a resounding gong
or a clanging cymbal.
If I have the gift of prophecy
and I can fathom all mysteries
and all knowledge,
and if I have faith
that can move mountains
but have not love,
I am nothing.
If I give all that I possess
to the poor
and surrender my body
to the flames
but have not love,
I gain nothing.
It doesn't matter
how dazzling or remarkable
your gifts are to other people.
It doesn't matter to God
in any case.
God cares first and foremost
about the heart
of the gifted person.
So as we go through and define the differences between so-called power gifts and maybe the rest,
understand that these gifts are meant to glorify God, not a single individual.
They're meant to lift up his church, not lift up the reputation of a single man or woman.
And if they're used for any other reason, it doesn't matter how impressive or dazzling or miraculous they may appear to be.
They cause harm, and they cause hurt, and they cause division and misunderstanding,
and that, ladies and gentlemen, is what I really want to avoid this morning
as I go through some of these.
Now, as I go through each one, we're going to start with a gift of deliverance.
I've given several scripture verses.
You can jot these down. I'm not going to read these.
I'm not even going to read their addresses.
But these are for you to do further investigation if you're so inclined.
And it's not an exhaustive list.
There's a lot more to be said about each of these gifts.
These are just some helps that I've provided for you this morning.
Okay, starting with the gift of deliverance.
Anyone familiar with the life of Jesus knows that he and his disciples drove out demons.
They confronted and expelled evil spirits from people,
and they confronted and expelled evil spirits from sometimes places.
And in the modern church, though, resistance to what we think of as superstition
or our fear that's born out of historic tragedies like the Salem witch trials
or, you know, going back a little farther, the Spanish Inquisition,
makes us kind of, well, cynical about people being punished or marginalized
for being demonically possessed or having demonic influence in their life.
But most of all, more than any cynicism about demons,
we rely on scientifically verifiable facts, about empirically provable things.
That's how we gauge truth in modern America.
And that makes a lot of us skeptical about things like demons
that we can't necessarily quantify or touch, taste, or see.
I say this to our shame.
Because unfortunately, while we Americans and we American Christians
have become skeptical about this stuff,
the rest of the world and more and more of the culture in this country,
around us, around this place,
have gotten reacquainted with spiritualism and supernatural power,
though not necessarily God's supernatural power.
So the so-called New Age movement,
many of you have heard of that,
the popularity and rise of Eastern religions here,
like Hinduism and Buddhism,
the re-emergence of different pagan faiths
in a loose kind of way,
witchcraft, belief in horoscopes,
all these are signs of a spiritually hungry culture.
And they're signs that we have people in this culture
that will dabble in just about anything
to connect with a spiritual force
that is maybe somehow bigger than them and their little lives.
And I'm not going to go through and try and challenge or debunk
any of these different spiritual practices.
In fact, I believe that many of these do conjure up real spiritual power.
And I believe that some of it is even miraculous.
But I hold to this statement absolutely.
Any spiritual power that isn't from God's Spirit,
that doesn't hold Christ as its only power and authority,
is evil and
inherently dangerous. Think of it
like chemotherapy. It may destroy
cancer. And I say this with all
due respect to those of you who have gone through this.
But sometimes
the cure is just as bad
as the disease. Chemotherapy
can cause hair loss and nausea
and in rare cases it can even
kill healthy cells
that kill the body. The gift
of deliverance is the power of God
given by God to weaken
and ultimately destroy the hold evil spirits have on people and places.
I challenge you to re-read some of the passages I've had listed above.
Re-read the life of Christ.
He considered these things as real as science.
And I myself have some experience with this,
but I think of myself in all humility as a novice in this area.
There are places in this world, particularly on the foreign mission field,
where evil spirits are worshipped.
and they just show up a lot more
and they make this kind of ministry much more common
than it has been historically here in scientific America.
And also I want to say this.
This is a quick plug for a class we're going to be offering in the near future.
October 13th, I believe, it starts.
John Ingram, a professor of psychology at Rosemead and Biola,
will be beginning a class here on spiritual warfare and deliverance
that will answer questions that I haven't even raised this morning.
I strongly recommend you take this class
whether or not you feel you have the gift of deliverance or not,
simply because our culture is dabbling in this stuff,
ignorantly, with some horribly dangerous stuff.
And the issue of deliverance is only going to become more real
and a lot larger than it already is now.
Moving on, the gift of discernment.
Discernment and deliverance usually go hand in hand.
Discernment is the ability God gives Christians
to tell the difference between truth and deception.
This is in truth and deception
in things that are preached, taught, or spoken.
This gift can provide those who have it
with insight into the deepest source
of a certain teaching,
whether it's true or false,
whether it comes from God,
whether it comes from human wisdom alone,
or whether it comes from Satan himself.
That's the gift of discernment.
They can see this in what is said
and what is believed. And closely related to that is the gift of faith. Every Christian is called
to trust the Lord in good times and in bad. That's just discipleship 101. Some of us, however, seem
to have a special gift of really resilient faith. You might call it the kind of faith that can move
mountains. That's the sort of faith I'm talking about. And these are the sort of people that kind
of scare and puzzle the rest of us. I mean, let's be honest. Because they don't shy away from any
uncertainties are risks. When they're sure that something, that some end, that some goal is the
will of God, they pursue it with no apologies. And we call these people visionaries, or depending on
our point of view, we call them nuts. But in any case, these are the sorts of people who will look
and build toward the future with a great deal of certainty and without flinching. They have
unusual confidence. Also, I want to talk a little bit more about this gift of faith. I'm not going
to go into the dangers, kind of the flip side of every gift, as we
kind of define them this morning. But I do want to say that this
gift of faith has three pitfalls, and they're to be
watched out for, especially if you have this gift. The first one
is that these people, much like
our skit today, tend to project their gifts onto others.
They say things like, why can't everyone be as full of faith or believe God or trust
God like I do. And they'll often rush to judgment about
the small-mindedness, weak faith, kind of
spiritual weakness of those around them, while these other believers
who may not be similarly gifted are just trying to be realistic.
They're just trying to be responsible and realistic. So if you have this gift,
avoid projecting your gift onto other people. Also,
it tends to be hard for people with this gift to admit that,
hey, sometimes, no matter how much faith they have, they can be wrong.
See, getting them to admit they are wrong is painful,
especially when the vision that they have goes unfulfilled.
And the reason is simple. Sometimes those with this gift will take personal criticism,
criticism of their vision, as criticism of God. It's simple.
The vision is being questioned. They believe their vision is from God.
And so they feel that God is ultimately being questioned.
The most important thing for those gifted with faith
is just to remember humility,
patience above all else,
and finally, just how to roll with criticism.
How to realize that everybody may not be
up to your standards.
That's all I'm going to say about that this morning.
But that projection issue, by the way,
applies to almost every gift I discuss this morning.
If you have it,
and the people around you may not have it,
don't expect them to have it.
God has purposed a very distinct and very special thing for their lives,
and it may not be what's up your alley.
The gift of healing.
The gift of healing is, again, a lot like faith.
All of us who follow Christ are called to pray for those who are sick.
This is one of the most common requests, for example,
that we receive as a staff when we meet.
Various prayers for either themselves or their loved ones,
just to recover from an illness or an injury.
But again, there are men and women who pray for the sick
and get results more often than most.
And understanding here is the key.
God heals the sick.
Those who pray can only claim that they have a special sensitivity
to God's desire to heal the sick in certain instances,
not all instances.
Sometimes people gifted with healing will also realize early on
before anyone else that God may have some other kind of purpose
in this illness or injury.
And at that point, what they can do in their prayers is offer comfort,
and they can even continue to offer prayers for healing and deliverance from this illness.
But in the end, they have to recognize that this is God's power,
and therefore God's decision.
People gifted in healing should never blame someone else's lack of faith
for they or their loved one's continued illness.
That's abusive, and I can't emphasize that enough.
And also, a person gifted with healing must always acknowledge
that God uses medicine,
that God uses technology
and doctors and midwives and healers,
as well as prayer,
and that one is never a substitute for the other.
Now this one is a bit sticky,
or these two, I should say,
is a bit sticky,
because we don't commonly practice it
in our circles.
First off, I would like to say
that I myself and the pastoral leadership
of this church affirm the gift of tongues.
We believe that they have continued validity in this day and age like any other,
as they did in the lifetime of the apostles.
We believe that these gifts are currently in action around the world,
including our own country, including people that we call brothers and sisters.
And I think it would be wrong if we discouraged or forbid them, even here,
even though we're not familiar with them.
I also acknowledge that there's a lot of confusion about speaking in tongues.
and its place and its place in the kind of the overall life of the church so let's see if i can
clarify that this morning some swear by it some would just as soon do without it simply put the
gift of tongues enable a believer to use a god-given language that they have never learned
this gift can be used in personal prayer time for the edification of the individual
or in public for the benefit of those listening when it is used in public it must
Underline must be followed by an interpretation.
That is, someone translating the prayer offered in tongues
into a language that everybody present can understand.
Now that's the technical definition of tongues.
Here's a few personal words about tongues.
I pray in tongues.
I feel like I'm coming out.
I pray in tongues.
I've always prayed in tongues.
I've always felt like praying in tongues.
Actually, I became acquainted with tongues
through my involvement with an Assemblies of God church
while I was in college.
I continue to pray in tongues.
I don't do it as often as I used to,
probably just because I'm not surrounded by others
who do it with great frequency.
And I always do it in privacy.
That's just a choice that I've made.
I also came from a faith tradition,
this Assemblies of God tradition that I alluded to,
that I think puts way too much emphasis on this gift,
especially over and above others.
they tend to treat those without it
as if they were somehow second-class believers.
And treating tongues like that is just wrong-headed.
It's not an Eagle Scout merit badge
for the Christian to wear.
It's a gift, like any other,
not more powerful than any other,
used for God's purposes like any other.
And if it's used to cause division
or inspire fear
or create a sense of holier-than-thou
or I'm a better believer, I'm closer to God,
then it's being used in a wrong way.
Paul says this, among other things, about tongues.
And this should give us some perspective.
If you give a blessing using your private prayer language,
Paul's kind of paraphrase of tongues,
which no one else understands,
how can some outsider who has just shown up
and has no idea what's going on,
know what to say, know when to say amen?
Your blessing might be beautiful,
but you have effectively cut that person out of it.
I'm grateful for God for the gift of praying in tongues that he gives us for praising him,
which leads to wonderful intimacies we enjoy with him.
I entered into this as much as any of you, but when I'm in a church assembled for worship,
I'd rather say five words that everyone can understand and learn from
than say 10,000 words that sound like gibberish.
In other words, church, our first priority in worship is communicating the truth of God.
not dazzling people with an unintelligible language
or weirding them out with our kind of crazy Holy Roller antics,
doing something just because we can.
People with this gift should always keep Paul's words in mind.
The gift of miracles.
And I realize this is a quick kind of Disneyland tour of these gifts.
I think each of these deserves a sermon in its own right,
but I want to get them in your mind and on your radar screen.
The gift of miracles.
The gift of miracles is closely related to the gifts of healing
and faith. Those gifted are the human instruments that God
uses to perform powerful acts that pretty much surpass
and blow away any natural laws. This gift is pretty
self-explanatory, but I should add this. God is
no magician. He doesn't do miracles just to ooh and ah and impress
the crowd. A miracle of God communicates something of vital
importance. It's not a freak show. Some
specific message to the people who witness and hear about the miracle must be communicated through
the miracle. For example, one that most of you know, the Red Sea. The Red Sea was not done just
to amaze the Israelites. It was done to save them from an army that was coming crashing down on them
and was going to wipe them out because they had nowhere to go. That miracle was done for a specific
purpose, in a specific time, in a specific place. And ultimately, it was done to glorify God,
his power that could save when nothing else could. The gift of prayer. Prayer is something that all
of us share in common, again, like faith. It's every Christian's privilege and joy to speak
directly to God. You don't need to be mediated through me, or a priest, or an angel, or a rosary
bead or anything. It is your privilege. It is your right as someone who calls Christ Lord to talk
to God in Christ. The gift of prayer is seen, though, in the lives of believers who can pray
over long periods of time and faithfully see tangible results coming from their prayers.
And these kind of folks are particularly determined prayer warriors, if you know any of them or if you
are one yourself, they seem capable of praying intensely and intently for pretty much hours on
end. And the real kicker is that they love every minute of it. And I have to tell you, in all
honesty, I do love prayer, but I'm not that gifted. I've known people who have, and their
prayer life dwarfs my own. And I respect them because of it. The gift of prophecy.
Prophecy doesn't necessarily make vague, scary, apocalyptic predictions
like Nostradamus or something.
You know, wearing a cow and getting a wide-eyed crazy look in your eyes.
In fact, if you can try and push that image out of your mind
when we consider this gift, you'd be doing yourself a favor.
Because more often than not, prophecy means speaking with God's authority
on a concrete situation that is happening not so much in the future
but in the here and now.
Prophecy also doesn't have to mean the message is doom and gloom.
Prediction of apocalyptic destruction, for example.
A prophet can just as easily offer God's encouragement through a tough situation.
The most basic definition is this.
The Christian receives a message from God and communicates it with other people.
That's a prophet.
Again, I think exercising this gift with caution is, like all these gifts, just wise.
if you're recently
discovering that God
uses you in this way
take your message to a few mature Christians
before you broadcast it on the internet
or in front of this congregation
especially those with discernment
gifts, take your message to those
who have the gift of discernment
so they can double check whether this message
should even be given to others
or who if anybody should receive this message
be gentle
be wise and be loving no matter
what the message is
and rely on otherwise mature people's discretion.
And finally, the last gift, which,
well, if some of you identify with this,
I'd really like to talk to you, actually,
because I'll have an insight into a person I've never met before.
In fact, if we had a table out front
enlisting people with the experience,
with the gift of suffering,
to come experience suffering for the kingdom of God,
I wonder how long the line would be.
I mean, let's be honest.
and yet we know through stories of men and women who have served
particularly in oppressive parts of the world, in Muslim or
communist parts of the world, that unjust suffering and sometimes even
martyrdom happens to the most thoroughly undeserving
people, undeserving saints. The gift of suffering
if you want to call it a gift, is not the opportunity
to suffer. In one way or another all of us has to deal with suffering
but the gift involves God giving particular people
the strength and the high spirits to treat their sufferings
as if they were somehow a victory. These people can maintain an attitude of
victory in the most apparently hopeless situations
and all anyone can really ultimately say about this gift
is this, if the prospect frightens you then you may not have the gift of
suffering but as is the case with so many things
We never know for sure until we find ourselves in a situation
what we can actually endure or what we could actually cope with.
I also know that God, in His mercy, never tests us beyond our endurance.
I hope I've created understanding and not more questions
in going through all of these.
I hope that a lot of you, or even some of you,
have had those aha moments that I alluded to at the beginning of the sermon,
that you see yourself in these descriptions.
that's wonderful. But in the end, let me just reemphasize that blessing and vitality come
when a church is willing to see its people operate in these powerful ways. But we should
also keep this in mind. God does spectacular things through flawed and thoroughly unspectacular
people like you and me. Anyone who is gifted in these blue gifts, these power gifts, should
never imagine themselves better or more accomplished than someone without these gifts. And those
of us who marvel at these gifts shouldn't imagine that that person who God uses to bring healing
and exorcism and deliverance and prophecy and speaking in other tongues is a super Christian
that we need to worship. Always worship the giver, never the gifted. Always worship the giver,
never the gift. In the end, for the body to work, it needs all its parts. In good health,
working without jealousy or
silly pride to that same
final goal, which is carrying
out the will of God on earth.
Now let me read you this anecdote before we close
because it describes somebody who's
pretty heavily weighted
in these so-called power
gifts. And it describes
her strengths and
her weaknesses. Her name is
Lucia from Argentina. I don't know if that's her
real name. Christian Schwartz
writes, I've met Lucia
at two different conferences. Both
time she was involved in a powerful ministry of intercession, and I suspect that most of
the participants could sense the difference it made when a meeting was upheld by prayer
warriors like her. At the same time, Lucia gave some of the other co-workers the impression
that they were less spiritual than herself. Even if she never intended to communicate
this, Christian, meaning the author, Christian Schwartz, the only thing that we can do for
the church development is prayer. She told me time and again, and I always replied, Lucia,
your prayer ministry is wonderful, but according to God's will, prayer is definitely not the only
thing that we can and should do. Despite my words, I had the impression that while listening to me,
she was really thinking, as convincing as it might sound, what Christian is teaching about
church development is not what really matters. It's all prayer. To avoid misunderstanding, I must
affirm that Lucia is a great woman and her ministry is powerfully used by God.
I would not suggest that she withdraw one inch from her prayer ministry.
Quite the contrary. However, instead of presenting prayer
as an alternative to the gifts that we've heard about
prior to this Sunday. The gifts of helps and administration
and leadership and mercy and artistic creativity and on and on.
The blue gifts. I mean the red gifts and the green gifts.
I would suggest that it is important for her, Lucia,
to appreciate the spiritual relevance
and the spiritual power
and the spiritual source
of all dimensions of ministry.
Let's pray.
Father God, we want to serve you.
And we want to do it in a way that pleases you.
We want to do it according to the way that you've made us.
We want to do it without jealousy,
without second guessing.
We want to do it relying on each other's strengths
and forgiving each other's weaknesses.
Father God, I ask that your Holy Spirit
would move in this church in various ways.
It would move in each person as they are gifted
and that we would be one no matter what our gift.
And I pray a blessing on these people
as they chase hard after you and your will
and your purpose for their life.
I pray that they would find joy and peace and purpose
in the life that you have for them.
I pray all these things in the name of your Son, Jesus Christ.
Amen.
I want to make one more plug.
October 6th.
