Are you enjoying your morning so far? Did you get a special breakfast? No? Are you going to get special lunch? There you go.
Well, may that be a wonderful time today. We're glad that you're here, and if you were a guest with us, we're just delighted that you would come and celebrate the Lord's Day with us today.
We are in a series right now on Kingdom Living, asking the question, what does an authentic faith in Jesus really look like in a variety of dimensions of our life?
And this morning, we come to this issue of what does it mean to be a Christian parent?
Father's Day seemed like an appropriate day to look at this issue of parenting.
So this actually is for both moms and dads, grandparents, parents-to-be-someday, grandparents-to-be-someday.
You can extrapolate, and it covers all of us.
Whether you mentor a child, a big brother, big sister, this is for you.
And I hope you'll realize that you can be a Christian and be a parent.
And that's different from being a Christian parent.
And we're going to look at the difference this morning.
And I want to challenge us and encourage us on what Christian parenting might look like.
So whether you are a two-parent nuclear family, a single mom, a single father, or any other family arrangement,
whether you're a dad, mom, grandparent
or someday one or more of the above
this is for you
and we're glad that you're here
and you can hear this
and my prayer
is that you'll be encouraged
as you live out your faith in Christ
to live it out in these experiences
and that God will bless you
as you mentor and parent
today and in the future
I'm indebted to this
for this message
much of the material
coming out of a phenomenal article
called Parenting
in a great book called The Complete Book of Everyday Christianity
by R. Paul Stevens and Robert Banks.
And so I share with you, what are we doing when we parent a child?
What are we really doing when God gives us the privilege of a child in our lives?
And we say we are parenting.
What are we really doing?
We're taking care of three things, body and soul and spirit.
we are nurturing a body and a soul and a spirit we're conceiving and caring for a little body we
are loving and nurturing a soul as their personality develops and their spirit we're
pointing them to god and developing i hope a hunger for god and his word as we parent
body soul and spirit and that kind of relationship that experience of parenting
changes and shapes both the children and the parents
or the grandparents or whoever's caring.
We often ask, well, how did the kids turn out after you're done?
The question also is, how did the parents turn out?
Are you different?
How did it exchange you?
How did the experience of raising a little one grow you?
What did God do in you in that experience as well?
Friends, you are parenting.
You are forming a body and a soul and a spirit.
That couldn't be more important in this world.
And sadly, though, some in our Western culture,
they see parenting, unfortunately, as kind of a nuisance,
something that comes along, and it's nice to have the trophy children,
but we've got other things to do.
We look to our careers to find ourselves and be actualized.
James Dobson, the famous psychologist, says,
The average father in America spends less than a minute of face-to-face communication with his children per day.
That's so sad.
Oh, it's so sad.
The average father.
Christian parents do it differently.
With Jesus in our life, with the Holy Spirit coursing through us, we do it differently.
But you know what, that sentiment goes back a long ways too.
Socrates, in 470 B.C., somewhere way back in there, he said this,
Could I climb to the highest place in Athens?
I would lift my voice and proclaim,
Fellow citizens, why do you turn and scrape every stone to gather wealth,
and take so little care of your children
to whom one day you must relinquish it all.
We've been struggling with this issue of time and energy and parenting
for a long time.
And I want us, as people living today,
to really come to grips with this issue
that we understand what real Christians do when they parent
and how it's different than perhaps others in the world around us.
First thing I want to say,
if you'll excuse me, I'm struggling with laryngitis.
Brad, could you get me a cup of water?
That would be so helpful at this moment
before I have a tickle fest in my throat.
You got one there?
Thank the Lord.
Thank you, my friend.
I thought I could make it.
It came close.
Only second page.
Well, anyway.
Parenting, friends, is more than a job.
Parenting is a vocation.
Do you believe that?
parenting is a vocation a vocation is a calling a vocation is a summons by God on your life
and parenting is a vocation because we're called by God to do it and it comes from God we're parents
because God allows us to be parents the whole idea of the parenting relationship comes from God
genesis 1 27 so god created people in his own image and god patterned them after himself
male and female he created them god blessed them and told them multiply and fill the earth
and subdue the earth god blesses god set up this relationship in parenting it's a high calling
It's something that we do in partnership with God.
It's profound.
Dobson again says,
No job can compete with the responsibility of shaping and molding a new human being.
There's nothing like that on earth.
Our projects at work might be exciting, but there's nothing like shaping a life.
It's a calling. It's a calling of God.
If we think that that bonus for slaving away at the office is more important than shaping a life, we've missed it.
If we think that promotion is worth more than shaping the life that God has given us, we've missed it.
There's nothing like parenting.
I'll share a short story.
It's said of a gentleman by the name of Boswell who was the famous biographer to Samuel Johnson.
There was a day that this gentleman referred to over and over as a special day in his childhood
when his father took him fishing out to a river or to a lake.
You can imagine the scene.
It was a day that in his adult mind was fixed,
and he reflected on it how his father taught him so many wonderful things in that experience of fishing.
And after people had heard so much about that fishing trip,
Somebody else checked the journal of Boswell's father to see what he said about that special and amazing day.
And so when a friend turned to the journal, this is what it said.
Gone fishing today with my son.
A day wasted.
Isn't that sad?
Think how a day in the life of a child can bless and affect a child.
think how a day focused on a child with you fully cognizant of the shaping you're doing how that can
impact a child parenting is a calling it's a vocation from god and there's nothing like it
on earth men and women are you giving your parenting the appropriate time and energy
if you're a grandparent and god has you deeply involved in the lives of your grandchildren
Are you giving it the energy that God would have?
Or have you let the things of the world and the promotions and the other benefits
and the things that seem so important crowd out this vocation that God has called you to?
Do you see your role as a parent, as a grandparent, as a vocation from God himself?
And if you don't, my prayer for you is that you begin to ask God that he would reveal that to you.
that you might grab it with all the gusto in which He has called you.
Parenting is a vocation.
Parenting, number two, is also stewardship.
Because who really owns those children?
It's not us.
They're a gift from God, and God owns everything.
The children are ultimately the Lord's.
We never really own them.
We have the privilege of blessing and pouring into their lives on God's behalf.
psalm 127 says children are a gift from the lord they are a reward from him they were thought about
it but our children don't choose us and we really don't choose our children do we they're given
they're entrusted to us for care for nurture the gifts that god has placed in them we are
entrusted to develop and to bring out on behalf of god the real owner of those children are we
willing to give up those children to the lord the true owner we're there to shape and guide and
develop in whatever way we can god has hardwired them with gifts and spiritual gifts over time
Our job is to grow it and to water it and to shape it and prune it and bless that child.
The funny thing is, you may be an engineer and God may have hardwired your child to be the artist.
And that's an interesting challenge, isn't it?
You may be a poet, but God has created your child to be an analyst.
And that experience can be really unique.
but God has entrusted us to develop
and to bless and nurture that child
not to replicate us
but to develop all that God is doing in that child
whether they look like us or follow our style
or our vocation or our occupation or not
I think sometimes we parents
we have these unfulfilled desires
from our own childhood
and we want our children to somehow fulfill those
We need to let them be who God made them to be.
Because God is the owner.
We're there to nurture what God is doing in those children.
Do you see your children as gifts from God?
Are you a faithful steward as you raise your children and grandchildren?
As you father and parent or mother and as you grandparent, as you mentor,
do you see it as stewardship?
Number three, parenting also is a form of ministering the gospel.
It's been said this, that the best way for a child to learn to fear God
is to know a real Christian.
The best way for a child to learn to pray is to live with a father and a mother
who know a friendship with God and who truly pray.
Parenting is a way of ministering the gospel.
We want those children to know and come to know the Father as well.
and we must be in a relationship with the Father
that they might see the example in us.
See, Christian parents, we live the life,
we live the good news in our homes
so that the children understand who God is
and begin to hunger for Him.
And if we don't live it authentically at home,
if we don't really live out the truths of the Gospel,
they're not going to see an accurate reflection of God.
See, the amazing thing is when the children are very little, they practically think we're God.
And how we treat them and how much grace and discipline and mercy and love we give them,
they're forming their picture of the Heavenly Father through us.
It's also been said you really understand the gospel when you can live it in the presence of your home.
It's one thing to be nice here.
It's another thing to be nice in the parking lot after church, right?
Boy, I've left church services and big, big churches in my other days,
and we hear about mercy and love.
We get in the parking lot, and it's out of my way.
Now you've got to get home.
You're even further from the church service.
Can you live out mercy and love and grace and patience at home Monday through Saturday?
That's why we come back here every week to get filled up again,
that we might live that out
because we want our children, our grandchildren,
those that we love and mentor to really see God
through how we live authentically before Him.
There was a survey of elementary children a few years ago,
and they indicated the ten most appreciated qualities for a dad.
Number one, he takes time for me.
Number two, he listens to me.
Number three, he plays with me.
Therefore, he invites me to go places with him.
He lets me help him.
He treats my mother well.
He lets me say what I think.
He's nice to my friends.
He only punishes me when I deserve it.
And he isn't afraid to admit when he's wrong.
That sounds like living out the gospel to me.
And that's what these children appreciated so much in their fathers.
The Bible says in Ephesians chapter 6,
children obey your parents because you belong to the lord we've been looking at this passage
for this is the right thing to do honor your father and your mother this is the first of the
ten commandments that ends with a promise and here is the promise if you honor your father and mother
you will live a long life full of blessing and now a word to you fathers don't make your children
angry by the way you treat them. Rather, bring them up
with the discipline and the instruction approved
by the Lord. Discipline and instruction.
Discipline and the word disciple
are closely related. The goal of the Christian discipline
is to see our children grow into mature disciples
of Jesus Christ. So we show them
And we tell them what that means.
We say, follow my example, as we parents follow the example of Jesus Christ.
Paul wrote that in 1 Corinthians chapter 11.
That's for us, parents, grandparents.
Follow my example, little ones, as I follow the example of Jesus.
If we want them to follow Jesus, we've got to really live out the gospel,
day in and day out, that we might say that with integrity.
Part of parenting is teaching those children who God is.
The famous British poet Samuel Taylor Coleridge once had a discussion with a man
that believed that children should not be given any formal religious education.
That's in vogue today, by the way.
Let them choose, right?
Let them choose.
Coleridge, when he heard that, didn't disagree.
but he invited this gentleman who felt like we should let them choose over to his garden.
An unkept garden, by the way.
And the gentleman said, you call this a garden?
It's just a bunch of weeds.
And Coleridge said this,
I do not wish to infringe on the liberty of the garden in any way.
I was just giving the garden a chance to express itself.
And what you get are weeds.
If we let people, children, just decide and do their spiritual thinking in a vacuum,
we get spiritual weeds.
God has you in their lives to teach them about God,
to show them the way, to model prayer,
to minister the gospel that they might understand it and be trained in it
and be discipled in it and be disciplined as they grow into maturity in Christ.
not just to think and express themselves in any way they want for that leads to spiritual weeds
so we discipline them we disciple our children we show them christ teach them how to live we
don't provoke them to anger says paul unnecessarily but we discipline appropriately
one person said rearing kids is like holding a wet bar of soap if it's too firm a grasp it
shoots from your hand right but too gentle a grasp and it slides away also a gentle but firm grasp
keeps it in control you can work with it gentle but firm it's a good image too often we want to
come down too hard no grace no love and we clamp down and they'll shoot away and rebel
Too loose, too unforgiving, just too mealy-mouthed,
too no boundaries, no backbone, and they slip away.
Firm, control, but gentle.
Parenting, finally, is priesthood.
You may never have thought of this.
1 Peter says this,
You are not like that, for you are a chosen people.
You are a kingdom of priests, God's holy nation,
his very own possession and this is so you can show others the goodness of god for he called
you out of the darkness and into the wonderful light that's for us church as disciples of jesus
christ we're called out of darkness we live in the kingdom of light we are therefore priests
a priesthood, a priest to each other.
And in a home where most or all the participants are committed Christians,
each believer can be a priest to the others.
Each believer can show the others Jesus Christ.
I have seen at times that my children are great theologians.
They teach me about innocence before God.
They teach me sometimes how to think deep thoughts about God.
I remember seeing this priesthood in action one time that so marked my mind.
In the church I was at before I came to Fullerton,
as I was working with a construction crew
and kind of helping them refurbish an apartment in the building on the campus there,
one of the gentlemen who was the foreman there,
he was a wonderful Christian man and he had a wonderful son
and who was about 17 years old, more or less, kind of helping on the job.
And I remember watching these two, and the father made a comment to me,
and I, to this day, have forgotten the detail of it,
but it was something negative and smart-alecky or sarcastic or something.
And the 17-year-old son said,
Hey, Dad, did what you say honor Christ?
and the dad turned and said wow you're right son thank you thanks for pointing that out shaping me
there was no anger there was no shame there was no flash in his eye it was just a humble
recognition that his son followed the lord and was helping shape dad as dad had shaped son
well that marked me i thought oh god may someday i have it that my children
can point Jesus to me and shape me
because I still need it.
I got rough edges.
I struggle at times.
May those children also be priests to me
and show me Jesus.
Boy, sometimes I'll say the dumbest things
and my children will say,
Dad, we don't say that.
We don't say that word.
It's not usually a bad word.
It's just we're trying to give them the right vocabulary
and I'll step out of bounds sometimes
and my own sons at five and six
will point and say,
Dad, is that right?
they can shape us as well they can show us jesus they can teach us what it means to be humble and
innocent before god how to approach the father with that childlike innocence they can teach us
how to approach the father that way and as parents as priests to our children there are two model
prayers from the book of ephesians i want you to take note of because i want you to go home and
look at these texts and pray these texts for your family i'm going to share them with you the first
one ephesians chapter 1 starting verse 16 paul says i have never stopped thanking god for you
i pray for you constantly asking god the glorious father of our lord jesus christ to give you
spiritual wisdom and understanding so that you might grow in your knowledge of god can you see
yourselves praying these prayers for your family i pray that your hearts will be flooded with light
so that you can understand the wonderful future he has promised to those he has called
i want you to realize what a rich and glorious inheritance he has given to his people and i pray
that you will begin to understand the incredible greatness of his power for us who believe in him
this is the same mighty power that raised christ from the dead and seated him in the place of honor
at god's right hand in the heavenly realms now he is far above any ruler or authority or power
or leader or anything else in this world or in the world to come and god has put all things under
the authority of christ and gave him this authority for the benefit of the church and the church is
his body filled by Christ who fills everything everywhere with his presence church can you see
how powerful that would be to daily pray that prayer for your family that they would know this
wonderful glorious presence of Christ in their lives can you imagine what God can do as he
is called down by you and the lives of your family look at Ephesians chapter 3 verse 14 this prayer
when I think of the wisdom
and scope of God's plan
I fall to my knees
and pray to the Father
the creator of everything
in heaven and on earth
I pray that from his glorious
unlimited resources
he will give you
mighty inner strength
through his Holy Spirit
and I pray for this child
my wife, my family
that Christ will be more and more
at home in their hearts
God as they trust in you
God, may your roots go down deep into the soil of God's marvelous love.
May you have the power to understand, as all God's people should,
how wide, how long, how high, and how deep His love really is.
May you experience the love of Christ through it is so great you'll never fully understand it,
but then you'll be filled with the fullness of life and power that comes from God.
I want my family to know how wide and long and high and deep God's love really is.
Parents, grandparents, can you pray these prayers for your families?
As you are priests to them, showing them the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit.
Pray for your children every day.
Every day.
Have your children pray for you every day.
can you pray like this
for your children
as you live out being priests
to each other
and for them
and finally I just want to conclude by saying this
that whether you sitting here
this morning
whether you are the product
of good parenting
or not
the fact of the matter is this
that God is
your heavenly father
and he is good
and he is perfect and whatever experiences you have had disappointments in your own family
god wants to love and minister to you as his child and this father's day you can also bless
the lord and say thank you that you are my heavenly father and i receive your love in my life
and that's my final prayer for you this morning
that you would be blessed as a child of God
that you would understand the Heavenly Father
that you understand and can experience
that you can call Him Abba which means Daddy
you can call on the God of the universe
in an intimate way
and His power and His love
can be in your life each and every day
I want you to experience that love
this Father's Day
and give the Lord a blessing.
The worship team is going to come and sing a special song.
And while they're singing, I might ask you just to appreciate and listen to the words.
And then shortly we're going to sing a final song together,
and I'm going to invite you, if you'd like, to receive prayer
regarding any of the issues we've talked about.
But perhaps you just need to have a blessing from God
and know that He's your Heavenly Father.
I'll pray for that for you right here.
Or if you want help being a better priest to your children,
or a better minister of the gospel to your children.
Whatever it is, myself and the prayer team want to pray for you
and ask God to bless you on this Father's Day,
that you might be and live out all that he's called you to be
as a parent, as a grandparent, as a child of God.
Let's listen, and then we'll respond as God leads.
