I want to begin by just saying I learned some things while in seminary. That's hopefully obvious, but one of the things I did learn was that you can gather a bunch of people that have very different perspectives and throw them into a room or rooms and they still get along.
It was actually quite amazing.
I came to a seminary that was full of people from varying denominations, varying perspectives, varying political perspectives.
Different nations, different races, different languages.
And we were all together.
And you couldn't make jokes, by the way, about anybody's denomination.
Because they're probably sitting next to you.
And be very careful.
No more religious humor.
Because you offend somebody.
At the same time, we could all laugh about our traditions and we came to share our traditions.
And I learned that what was uniting us was more important than what was dividing us.
And I learned that through Jesus, we could really learn from one another.
That we didn't each have the corner on the market of truth.
And so I'd sit next to the Methodist and the Presbyterian and the Baptist in the middle
and the Assemblies of God and the such and such.
And we might have fought and disagreed and jabbed each other in smiles,
but deep down we loved each other and we appreciated each other
and we learned from each other.
The reality of Jesus and his call upon our lives,
It superseded any other disagreements or problems or disappointments we might have had with each other.
The teachings of Jesus and His accomplishments on the cross for us make a difference.
And make a difference for those who call Him leader and forgiver.
And I think the beginning of this year is a good time for us to assess the reality of Jesus in our lives.
I think it's important that we think about Jesus and how he affects our relationships with others.
And that goes for both inside and outside the church.
If we want to grow spiritually, if we want to really get more of Jesus flowing through our veins,
we must have our channels open with God.
We must be about biblical peacemaking.
We must have those channels open with each other.
So this morning, I want to enter a story, a story, an incident, really, that took place a long time ago.
And yet God speaks to us through this story across the centuries.
And the message is for us today as it was centuries ago in yesteryear.
It comes from one short book, one chapter that comprises the whole book.
And the book is Philemon.
And I'm going to read this morning the version from Eugene Peterson's The Message,
and I share it with you.
I, Paul, am a prisoner for the sake of Christ.
Here with my brother Timothy, I write this letter to you, Philemon,
my good friend and companion in this work,
also to our sister Aphia, to Archippus, a real trooper,
and to the church that meets in your house.
God's best to you.
Christ's blessings on you.
And every time your name comes up in my prayers,
I say, oh, thank you, God.
I keep hearing of the love and faith you have
for the Master Jesus,
which brims over to the other Christians.
And I keep praying that this faith we hold in common
keeps showing up in the good things we do
and that people recognize Christ in all of it.
You have, friend, you have no idea
how good your love makes me feel,
doubly so when I see your hospitality to fellow believers.
In line with all of this, I have a favor to ask of you.
As Christ's ambassador and now a prisoner for him,
I wouldn't hesitate to command this if I thought it necessary,
but I'd rather make it a personal request.
While here in jail, I've fathered a child, so to speak,
And here he is, hand-carrying this letter, Onesimus.
He was useless to you before.
Now he's useful to both of us.
I'm sending him back to you,
but it feels like I'm cutting off my right arm in doing so.
I wanted in the worst way to keep him here as your stand-in
to help out while I'm in jail for the message,
but I didn't want to do anything behind your back,
make you do a good deed that you don't,
you hadn't willingly agreed to maybe it's all for the best that you lost him for a while
you're getting him back now for good and no mere slave this time but a true christian brother
that's what he was to me he'll be even more than that to you so if you consider still consider me
a comrade in arms welcome him back as you would me if he damaged anything or owes you anything
chalk it up to my account this is my personal signature
Paul and I stand behind it I don't need to remind you
do I that you owe your very life to me do me this
big favor friend you'll be doing it for Christ but it will also
do my heart good there's three characters in that story
I want to kind of dive into their world and unpack a little bit
the first is the reconciler who's Paul
Paul writes this letter, the innocent bystander in a conflict between two people.
He wants more than anything else at this moment to see Onesimus and Philemon restored to relationship.
You see, Onesimus was the runaway slave and Philemon was his owner.
And as we've talked about in sermons past, we think about slavery and immediately we think about our own national experience with slavery.
We have to remember that slavery in the time of the New Testament was very different,
clearly more humane, and was more political and economic than it was truly subjugation as we've seen it in our country.
But either way, it wasn't a great system, and Onesimus ran off and stole something.
And yet, while on the run, while on the lam, Onesimus comes into the presence of Paul
and comes under his tutelage while Paul is incarcerated.
And eventually, in the course of time, Onesimus is converted to faith in Jesus Christ.
And instead of Paul keeping him around to help him in the ministry,
Paul sends him back to Philemon about a thousand miles away.
Paul is the mediator between these two estranged parties.
Paul takes the initiative.
Paul steps in and risks to see that these parties are restored.
For the sake of reconciliation, in fact, Paul was willing to lose Onesimus and all that he meant to him.
I think he was there to help him and could probably have done a lot of great ministry with Paul,
but he knew there had to be reconciliation, so he sent him back.
And it cost Paul personally.
Not to mention that Paul said,
if you need to chalk anything up to my account,
I'll pay for whatever was stolen.
This was costly.
Paul was involved.
Paul didn't need to be involved.
And yet because of the sake of the gospel and reconciliation,
Paul had to be the reconciler and God involved.
Friends, the church needs reconcilers.
How can we be reconcilers?
Where in your life can you take action?
Where in your life can you take action to help people at odds to meet on common ground
and to heal the rips and perhaps the tears in the relationship?
How can you take the initiative and help someone confront bitterness and move into wholeness?
Can you think of anyone?
How can you be a reconciler like Paul models here?
That's Paul.
but there's also the receiver it's philemon here's philemon's dilemma his slave has run away
stolen something and now he's being asked to receive him back not as a slave but as a brother
in christ you know by law philemon had the right to punish him to even have him killed under the
law. But now Paul says he's one of us. He's a brother in Christ. That's going to take some
grace. It's going to take some forgiveness. With God's help, he did it. With God's help, he put
away his disappointment, his anger, his vengeance. With God's help, he put his arms around the slave
and said, welcome home, brother. With God's help, there are parents that need to forgive and to
receive their children home who have rebelled in the past there are business partners that need to
heal and forgive each other after a sour business deal there are church members who need to forgive
each other for actions and attitudes displayed perhaps yesterday or a long ways in the past
Can we be a church of receivers as much as we are reconcilers for others?
We need receivers in the church of Jesus Christ.
We need people who will put aside old hurts, old wounds, old misgivings,
and work towards unity in their families, in their friendships, and in their church.
After all, it was God who has reconciled with us as His children.
2 Corinthians says it this way, in verse chapter 5,
For God was in Christ, reconciling the world to himself,
no longer counting people's sins against them.
Amen. Amen.
This is the wonderful message he has given us to tell others.
We are Christ's ambassadors, and God is using us to speak to tell others, to speak to you.
We urge you, as though Christ himself were here pleading with you,
be reconciled to God.
For God made Christ, who never sinned, to be the offering for our sin,
so that we could be right with God through Christ.
Oh, praise the Lord.
God reconciled with us through Jesus Christ.
Therefore, we are to be reconciled with others as well.
Now, reconciliation, it has to do with relationships.
And I want to define this a little bit.
Reconciliation does not have to do with agreement or understanding on all the issues.
You see, reconciliation is different than resolution.
Resolution says that we are understanding each other and coming to common ground on an issue.
It means we have uniformity in thinking on an issue.
That's the resolution.
But reconciliation is different.
Reconciliation is moving beyond hurt into a place of solidarity with somebody else
for the sake of relationship and unity in the church.
It doesn't mean you have to agree on all the issues.
Reconciliation is about being for the other person,
united in one cause and purpose, even if we disagree on the methods or the particulars.
As seminary students, we were for each other, but we disagreed on interpretations of Scripture.
We disagreed on some perspectives in ministry, but we were still reconciled together,
even if we weren't resolved on everything.
Is that clear, the difference?
Reconciliation is the relationship.
Resolution is the issues.
And they don't have to be the same.
We don't have to have resolution and uniformity to have reconciliation and relationship.
The Word of God is interested in reconciliation, not necessarily resolution.
God is interested in our relationships over our unity in mind.
You see, you can disagree with the decisions of your sons and daughters, your grandchildren,
and you can still be in relationship with them.
You can still be close, even if you disagree on the issues.
Spouses can have differing opinions on many things and still be in deep, connected relationship.
It's been said that a good relationship between husband and wife means they think together
and not necessarily alike.
I like that.
You think together, not necessarily alike, but you're in relationship together.
Church members, we can disagree on perspectives in ministry and still be in close relationship.
We can be honest and accept each other without having to think alike.
We can be confident in each other without being in conformity in mind.
You see, reconciliation and resolution are two different things.
Two different things.
You see, the story of Philemon and Onesimus challenges us to ask if there are relationships,
both inside and outside of the church, that require us to be receivers.
Do we need to do some reconciling with some people and receive them back?
Is there unfinished business between you and somebody else in this room, in this body,
in your family, in your network of relationships
that God is beginning to speak to you about in reconciliation.
Not necessarily resolution of all the issues,
but reconciling for relationship.
Ephesians chapter 2 tells a powerful story.
For Christ himself has made peace between us Jews and you Gentiles,
writes Paul, by making us all one people.
He has broken down the wall of hostility that used to separate us
by his death he ended the whole system of jewish law that excluded the gentiles his purpose was to
make peace between jews and gentiles by creating in himself one new person from the two groups
together as one body christ reconciled both groups to god by means of his death and our
hostility toward each other was put to death he has brought this good news of peace to you gentiles
who were far away from him, and to us Jews who were near.
Now all of us, both Jews and Gentiles, may come to the Father through the same Holy Spirit
because of what Christ has done for us.
If Jesus Christ can make peace between the Jews and the Gentiles of Jesus' day
on polar opposites on so many issues,
if he can let those walls fall down he can heal the rifts in our relationships as well
that's a far bigger miracle than the relationships perhaps that we get entangled with right here
friends reconciliation extends beyond our own relationships to tensions between the genders
the generations the ethnic races we're to be a people of biblical peacemakers everywhere
everywhere we know there's a generation war
generations struggle with each other they struggle with
values about what it means to be a citizen of this country we struggle with
what it means to be spiritual we struggle with what it
means to be good and acceptable in our society we
struggle with each other it's generations as peacemakers
committed to jesus christ we have to come together
We may not always agree on the issues, but we've got to be for each other,
united under the blood of Jesus.
May the walls fall down.
How might we, how might you, be involved in being a reconciler,
a receiver towards those of another generation in this society,
another race, the opposite sex?
can you think of places where it's time to do some reconciling the third character in this story
is the slave himself we call him the repenter i don't know if that's a formal english word but
it works in our context the repenter the one who repents under the challenge of paul
and the prompting of the holy spirit onesimus brought this letter the book of philemon
and he took it on a thousand mile trek
from Rome back to the city of Colossae
and he repented to his owner Philemon
Onesimus acknowledged his disobedience
went to the person he offended
and asked for forgiveness without excuse
he traveled a thousand miles to do it
let's be honest we get offended when we
have a friend that tells us we've got to pick up the phone
and call mom and be reconciled don't we
the man traveled a thousand miles to be reconciled
And we get up in arms when somebody challenges us to talk after church over a cup of coffee and be reconciled.
Friends, reconciliation is costly, but it needs to be done for the sake of unity in the body of Christ.
Because if the world looks in and we're not unified and reconciled in relationship,
we've got nothing to offer the world.
Where do you need to ask for forgiveness to make a relationship right?
Who do you need to take out to lunch today?
And I'm serious about this.
Polly's is waiting for you you just fill it up and if there needs to be reconciling it's time
to bury the hatchet it's time to stop the infighting it's time to stop mistrusting it's
time to say we may not agree but I love you in Christ and let's share some pie and love each
other and I'm serious it's if you have somebody that you have held a grudge or an issue and you're
not united in relationship you need to go today because the full year is ahead of us and we cannot
go into the year harboring issues of irreconciliation we must be reconciled if we're to
go forward and have god's blessing on ministry today's the day who will you call tonight to make
things right as you're processing and writing down those names on your bulletin nudge nudge let me
share with you a dynamic to help you understand this a little bit. Corrie Ten Boom,
you may know the name, was a survivor of Auschwitz. She is
probably, in my view, the ultimate person to
think about when I think about reconciliation and repentance and
what it means to forgive. For she was a woman that, in her
family, protected the Jews during the Holocaust, and her family was
eventually sold out and put on a train to Auschwitz, and
She survived the death camp there.
Her sister was taken in the camp, but she survived
and through a clerical error was released
and in the end met some of the prison guards and forgave them.
That is reconciliation.
And she talks about forgiveness as letting go of the rope
attached to the bell in the belfry of a church.
Now think about that image for a minute.
You know that to get a bell ringing in a church steeple,
You've got to tug on the rope, and it takes a little while before the bell starts to move.
You've got to pull and pull to get the momentum going and the bell swinging.
But once you get it going, the momentum of the bell keeps the bell moving back and forth, doesn't it?
She says, forgiveness is like letting go of the rope.
Letting go of the rope.
But you know what happens?
The bell keeps swinging and ringing for a while, doesn't it?
But as you keep your hands off the rope, this is it.
As you keep your hands off the rope, it eventually subsides and stops.
Forgiveness is not just the one time letting go and then grabbing back on.
Forgiveness is that act of continually letting the rope go.
even if in your heart you don't feel yet like forgiving you let it go you keep letting it go
and eventually it stops forgiveness she says is not something you feel it is something you do
it is letting go of the rope of retribution of letting it go i like that word picture
that captures something for me it's a continual letting it go reconciliation then is a process
it's a process so what happened to these characters as time went on we're looking at a
snapshot of an incident but what happens well paul paul carries on his life he writes some more books
of the new testament was martyred in prison and ended up being probably the most influential
person in the development of the early church that's paul and his story philemon what happened
to him philemon seems to have faded into the background after these happenings we don't much
hear about him again and onesimus what happened to the runaway slave well tradition and some
scholarship leads us to think that he eventually became the bishop in the church of ephesus in the
second century how's that runaway slave leader of the church in ephesus could it be that his
integrity with this issue in reconciliation laid the groundwork for god to use him and bless him
and raise him up in ministry to heights he could never have imagined could be what about slavery
Well, as the great scholar F.F. Bruce has said,
what this letter does is to bring us into an atmosphere
in which the institution of slavery could only wilt and die.
And die it eventually did.
As we leave this message, in just a few moments you're going to hear a special song
on the issue of reconciliation and wholeness.
I'd like to leave you with the introduction to the book of Philemon
that Eugene Peterson wrote in the message.
Here's his introduction.
He says,
Every movement we make in response to God
has a ripple effect,
touching family, neighbors, friends, and community.
Belief in God alters our language.
Love of God affects daily relationships.
Hope in God enters into our work,
and also their opposites,
unbelief, indifference, and despair. None of these movements and responses, beliefs and prayers,
gestures and searches can be confined to the soul. They spill out and they make history.
If they don't, they are under suspicion of being fantasies at best, hypocrisies at worst.
Philemon and Onesimus, the slave owner who figure prominently in this letter from Paul,
had no idea that believing in Jesus would involve them in such radical social change.
But as the two of them were brought together by this letter, it did, and it still does.
It still does.
This gospel still affects relationships and brings us together.
Let us listen contemplatively and meditatively to the words of this song.
