Good morning and welcome. I'm pleased to report I got back from a few days of encouragement and rest at the beginning of last week.
I was privileged to represent you as one of our leading churches in our region at a conference for pastors of the leading churches
to gather and to just put our heads together and learn and just have collegial fellowship.
And I got some rest.
It was really great.
But somehow I still picked up whatever my kids are spreading around.
So I'm a pseudofed head today.
And if I just sort of stare off into space, it's all right.
I'm coming back.
But at that conference, I do want to share this.
Our regional executive, one of our members here, Dale Salico, challenged us last morning.
And he challenged us with this reality that I want you to hear and really take in this morning because it's really impacting me.
Dale and his estimation of where our culture is
and where the church is in relation to that
and the impact the church is making in our world today in North America
and his estimation is that we have somewhere between 7 and 8 years
to make major impact
or we're going to slide just like Europe into a very secular society
and that is consistent with my own study and my own reading
and my own studying our culture and what's happening.
That puts us out about 2010.
We have from now to 2010 to really impact the world around us
or a whole generation is going to slide right away from the gospel
and reject it all.
And that's depressing to me.
The church is alive and well in South America.
The church is alive and well in Africa.
The church is alive and well in Southeast Asia
and other places in the world, but North America and Europe, we are on a swift decline, and
it's time that we as the church say, Lord, use us.
We are ready to take this culture by storm and to bring your Holy Spirit into lives of
people that so desperately need you.
And so Dale said to us pastors, basically it is not business as usual.
It is now a mission.
We are on red alert.
go forth and serve and transform your communities.
And I said, all right, we'll do that.
And I'm proud to say that as a leading church in our region
that we have established ourselves ready and poised to do that.
And so I want to encourage you with that and say
that I think one of the ways we'll do that
is by utilizing our spiritual gifts.
When we discover what God has designed us for
and made and hardwired us for.
We will serve with the power of the Holy Spirit
through those giftings.
We'll change the world.
I look forward to seeing how he's going to do that
as we discover these gifts.
So now we are in our second week
as we study the issue of spiritual gifts.
For those of you this morning
that might be new to God's kingdom,
perhaps you are new in a relationship with Jesus,
and you are sitting there this morning
and you're just excited.
I mean, life is new.
You are cleansed and forgiven
and you are raring to go.
And you have been forgiven of your past.
The future is totally open and in front of you.
And you are looking forward to launching
into a new kind of life.
You want to make a difference.
You want your life to count.
What do you do next?
What do you do next?
And that, I hope, we will answer this morning.
Or, you may have been a Christian for quite some time.
You may have been sitting in church for years, perhaps decades,
and you've got a lot of great teaching and information under your belt.
You have sat under some of the best teachers and preachers
that this church and other churches have had to offer,
and you are really knowledgeable of the scriptures and raring to go.
But still, when you serve in the church, you still don't feel deeply fulfilled.
You're not sure that what you're doing really connects with the community
or even perhaps what God made you to be about.
You know this, and you know yourself,
but you're not sure that what you're doing and serving is really humming on all the cylinders that it could be.
And you're asking yourself, am I really in a good fit?
Does what I do really contribute and get the ball down the field in terms of the mission of this church?
Am I really making a difference for God's kingdom?
And if you're asking that question today, we've also got some answers for you.
The Bible teaches that God has given every believer, every follower of Jesus,
has been given at least one, if not more, spiritual gifts for the building up and the development
and the extension of the local church.
For a quick review, we saw last week a great definition.
If you didn't get it, you might jot this down today.
A spiritual gift is a special ability that God gives, according to His grace, to each member of the body of Christ to be used for the development of the church.
To be used for the development of the church.
It's not just for our own enjoyment, though that's a byproduct.
It's not just for our own fulfillment, though that happens to be true.
It's for the development of the body of Christ in the community.
Why does he do that?
Why does God do it that way?
Why does God give these gifts to his people to build up the church?
And the deeper question is, well, what's so special about the church?
Because the church is God's vehicle for bringing God's kingdom to the world.
It's the way God grows the kingdom.
Through the church, lives are changed.
People find forgiveness and wholeness and justice.
They find meaning and purpose and a call upon their lives.
They find a connection to God's people
and an intimate expression of the love in their hearts towards God.
There is nothing in the world like the church when it's working right.
There's nothing like it.
And friends, there's nothing worth committing to with all of your heart, soul, and being
than the church when it's working right.
But you've also seen some churches not working right.
And they've got to work right for it really to be effective
in doing what God has called it to be about.
And I believe at Fullerton First Baptist that we're all about being
the best expression of the local church that we can be.
We're here to be the best that we can be for God's glory.
We're here to run full tilt with all of our energy
operating in the most effective, efficient, and wonderfully powered way that we can.
And we're all excited about doing that.
And the way we begin to do that is to discover what God has gifted us to do.
That's heady stuff, but it's true.
and I believe that God wants to have you come along on this adventure.
He really wants you to grow in this area
and to step out in faith and experiment and try
and watch his power fill your life
and watch him change lives through you in this community.
There's nothing like it.
Nothing like it.
There's nothing like stepping back
from an opportunity where you've had
to step out in faith and use a gift he's given you
and watch somebody come and say,
I was so blessed.
God spoke through you to me.
God brought you right into my life,
right at the moment when I needed thus and such,
and you came with your gift and blessed me.
There's nothing like hearing that the God of the universe
is using you to change lives.
There's nothing like that.
It's one of those Holy Ghost shivering kind of moments.
There are days when I will preach and you will say things to me that I didn't even know I said.
I had no idea that that thought that I wrote down two or three days ago, a week ago,
was going to slice right through your life and touch you in the most intimate way.
I had no idea.
But what a blessing it is to walk away and realize God used me.
That he used my study time to bless you.
There is nothing like that.
I love that experience.
It keeps me going every time.
Every Sunday morning I drive here and about halfway here I go, oh, Jesus.
Here we go again.
Use me, Lord.
I hope that what I have given you in my thinking and studying and writing is going to be used of you.
But you know what?
It's not about me.
It's about you.
And then when you come and say thank you, it blesses me so much.
That's because God is using my spiritual gifts.
And you may not have all the same gifts.
In fact, we don't have all the same gifts, so we can do different things as a body together to operate together.
But there's nothing like it when you use your gift and somebody's blessed.
Wow, that's why we're here.
That's why we're here.
I want to share some scriptures that just elevate and document, if I can use that word, these spiritual gifts.
To show you where they come from.
Romans chapter 12.
There are three basic lists in scripture where most of the gifts are located.
There are some others in secondary places.
But I wanted this morning to share with you the primary areas where the gifts are listed for your own study and your own thinking.
Romans chapter 12.
Starting in verse 3.
Paul writes,
As God's messenger, I give each of you this warning.
Be honest in your estimate of yourselves,
measuring your value by how much faith God has given you.
Just as our bodies have many parts,
and each part has a special function,
so it is with Christ's body.
We are all parts of his one body,
and each of us has different work to do.
And since we are all one body in Christ,
we belong to each other
and each of us needs all the others.
God has given each of us
the ability to do certain things well.
So if God has given you the ability to prophesy,
speak out when you have faith
that God is speaking through you.
If your gift is that of serving others,
serve them well.
If you are a teacher, do a good job of teaching.
If your gift is to encourage others, do it.
If you have money, share it generously.
If God has given you leadership ability, take the responsibility seriously.
And if you have a gift for showing kindness to others, do it gladly.
A number of spiritual gifts in that list.
The next major list comes from 1 Corinthians chapter 12, starting in verse 7.
Paul writes,
A spiritual gift is given to each of us as a means of helping the entire church.
To one person, the Spirit gives the ability to give wise advice.
To another, he gives the gift of special knowledge.
The Spirit gives special faith to another,
and to someone else, he gives the power to heal the sick.
He gives one person the power to perform miracles
and to another the ability to prophesy.
He gives someone else the ability to know
whether it is really the Spirit of God
or another spirit that is speaking.
Still, another person is given the ability
to speak in unknown languages
and another is given the ability
to interpret what is being said.
It is the one and only Holy Spirit who distributes these gifts.
He alone decides which gift each person should have.
It's not about us.
It's what the Lord gives, his desires, as he gives gifts liberally to the church.
And finally, the last major list of gifts comes from Ephesians chapter 4.
Paul writes,
He is the one who gave these gifts to the church,
the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists,
and the pastors and teachers.
Their responsibility is to equip God's people to do His work
and to build up the church, the body of Christ,
until we come to such unity in our faith and knowledge of God's Son
that we will be mature and full-grown in the Lord,
measuring up to the full stature of Christ.
Then, we will no longer be like children,
forever changing our minds about what we believe
because someone has told us something different
or because someone has cleverly lied to us
and made the lie sound like the truth.
Instead, we will hold to the truth in love,
becoming more and more in every way like Christ,
who is the head of the body, the church.
Under his direction, the whole body is fitted together perfectly
as each part does its own special work.
It helps the other parts to grow.
So the whole body is healthy and growing and full of love.
The point of spiritual gifts, that the church might be, and here they are again, healthy, growing, and full of love.
Full of love.
That's the point of studying the spiritual gifts.
That the church might grow up and be mature.
That we individually would grow up and be mature and full of love.
and bring the kingdom of God to this earth
and watch it transform lives, one life at a time, in the community.
Now, in terms of these gifts, and I've shared with you three lists,
there's other places in Scripture also,
and next week you'll get a chance to see a little more of those,
about some other gifts and where they're located.
The question becomes, are there only a certain number of gifts,
or are there other ones that God is using that may not be listed in Scripture?
See, the challenging part is each time a list comes, there's some similarities and some differences.
And we ask the question, well, does each list have the total or are there more out there?
How do we really look at this?
Why is it that some scholars list 10 gifts, some scholars list 20, and some list up to 30?
And to be honest, I've been trying to figure that out.
I've got a bunch of books and I'm reading them.
I'm getting all kinds of different opinions about what the gifts are.
That's a little frustrating sometimes.
I've come to realize that I think the Scripture is giving these overviews of the gifts,
and there may be a few more that he does use at times that may not be listed specifically.
But I don't want to be too dogmatic on that either.
I'm not totally sure.
But what I do know is the ones that we're going to list, I believe, are scripturally based,
and I've seen them in experience.
And I'm going to give you three more this morning that I think are being used
that have scriptural reference
but aren't typically thought of in the classic lists.
And I'll share them with you.
And I want your feedback to see if you've seen them used
or perhaps you have one of these.
I hope I've captured your mind at this point.
I also want to say one more thing about the gifts.
Realize this, that all the gifts are in the minority in the congregation.
We're not mostly going to be a church of teaching gifts
with a couple gifts of healing or of prophecy or perhaps mercy.
The reality is there won't be any one dominant gift anywhere in this place.
And that's why we need each other.
That's why we need each other.
If a church was to get overloaded in one section of gifts,
I would argue that what's happening is that people,
the birds of a feather flock together phenomenon is happening,
and we're more comfortable with people like us
and I've got one spiritual gift
and I like that gift in you
so let's hang out together.
And that might be comfortable
but I don't believe it's a biblical value for the church
because we're supposed to use all the gifts together
for the body of Christ.
And if we're all one kind of gift,
we're missing out on the rest.
And so it's exciting
that there's a variety of gifts
represented in this room
and that represents different personality types as well,
different ideals, different perspectives.
But that makes us rich as we serve together.
Last week, we studied what we termed the red gifts.
The red gifts can be thought of as red
because they're symbolic of Jesus and his commitment to us.
The shed blood of Jesus, for our sake,
is connected to the color red.
and the red gifts are about people growing and knowing Jesus more.
This morning we'll try a different grouping
and we'll call them the green gifts.
The green gifts.
Green is the color of meadows and forested mountains
and beautiful plant life that abounds on the earth.
You can think of green, if you want, this morning
as relating to God's work in the creation of the world
and what he's doing in the world.
You can think of the green gifts as God's revelation in creation.
I can think of these as being, if you will, wisdom gifts.
Because they relate to practical, real-world issues.
And when the Holy Spirit uses these gifts,
They serve the church in a very practical way as we minister in this world.
And so the first set I'm going to share with you have been termed the social needs gifts
under this topic of the green gifts.
And the first one I want to share is the spiritual gift of giving, of giving.
Now, as we're nearing that time, that budget time of the year, let's just amp on this for
a moment, shall we?
The giving gift is not just a challenge for us to be givers to the Lord of what the Bible clearly says we should be giving as tithing people.
The gift of giving is for those who have a special gift and ability from God to give way more than is required.
It's to go well above and beyond, say, a 10% of our giving.
It's to really get out there and give third, a half, 90% away.
It's not my gift.
That's tough.
I like my stuff.
I really do.
And I give to the Lord.
I give plenty away.
But let's be honest, I still like things and I like to use things and buy things and so forth.
And the Lord blesses and he allows us to do that.
But when you talk to somebody with the gift of giving, they love in their heart of hearts to write checks and bless ministries to start them and empower them.
That's where they are most deeply fulfilled is when they're giving away what God has blessed them with for his kingdom.
And they just love to give it away.
The challenging part is if you have the gift of giving, it's easy to project that on everybody else and somehow look down at everybody else if you don't do that.
That's a danger with any of the gifts.
But if you've got the special gift of giving, praise the Lord.
And you need to exercise that and work with it.
It's the ability to give a significant percentage beyond the tithe to the kingdom.
If you have that gift, and I know some of you do,
you are needed to support the church, special projects,
birthing new ministries that we don't have budget for,
but we really want to experiment with.
You need to be writing checks and serving and giving to missionaries
and blessing people around the world with the abundance God has given you.
You can see how powerful that gift is in the church.
You do realize that Jesus was bankrolled in his ministry by women.
Many of them perhaps had the spiritual gift of giving,
for they gave liberally that he might have a ministry.
It's a powerful gift.
the gift of giving. The second one is the gift of hospitality. This gift allows people with great
joy, with Holy Spirit-inspired joy, to be able to open their home and bless many people as they're
traveling through. They can make their home such a welcome place that when you come and go there,
you just know that God's Spirit rests on this place and you are refreshed in the presence of
those people with the gift of hospitality some of our members here have that gift for it can
operate not only in the home but you can also do it in the church buildings literally as well
i believe donna toby has that gift just to name one comes off top of my head when you are around
her you are just you feel blessed and refreshed and whatever she sets up is just ministers to
your soul in a way that is inspired by god we're all called to be hospitable but if you have this
special gift of hospitality you have an extra measure of ability by god to do that to serve
god's people and you just love doing that and if you're sitting there this morning and you don't
like vacuuming your house and you can't stand it when people are over and you can't wait to
You know, it's 7.30, time to go.
If that's your perspective, you don't have the gift.
That's all right.
It's all right.
But some of you do have that.
And if you do have it, you need to exercise that and develop it and grow that and bless the church through that.
Number three is mercy.
Mercy.
The gift of mercy, it enables Christians to demonstrate empathy through practical deeds towards those who are troubled,
whether in mind, body, or spirit.
And it's different from those who are good and blessed to counsel.
This is a practical one that serves people
in practical, kinesthetic, and hard ways.
I mean, it's serving them and giving them something,
blessing them, instead of just with words.
It's through action.
You meet the needs of others through loving action.
If you're involved with this gift,
I would encourage you to be part of our intercessory prayer teams.
to go minister to the underprivileged
in the community
to do prison ministry
to do foreign missions
to minister to those with physical and or emotional
challenges we have a hope keepers
ministry that started that's right up
that alley if you have the gift of
mercy I encourage you to be a part
of those kinds of ministries
ministry to those who are
addicted chemically dependent and so forth
friends I just in my reading
and studying I am just more
and more convinced
that this world is just an
addicted world. Everybody
seems to be addicted to something.
Just trying to cope and get through
life. And we as the church
have
what it takes to get people to be
free of those things
and to worship God
clean and free and whole.
And I am just becoming more and more
burdened that we as the church have got to
really develop recovery ministry
for all kinds of people that are
addicted and stuck in this world, in destructive patterns that will take down their families and
their own lives. It's just what must happen if we're going to take seriously the gospel
in this world today, an addicted world. If you have the gift of mercy, you'll be drawn
to those kinds of ministries to see people become whole, and you'll serve them with joy
or gladness.
The next one is interesting.
It's been termed in different ways,
but basically it's the gift of voluntary poverty.
How's that?
I really don't have this gift.
My parents tell me I've got basically Nordstrom taste
on a low budget, but that's all right.
Voluntary poverty, not my gift,
but some of you may have this gift.
And here's what it looks like.
You regularly desire and do this.
You maintain a standard of living that parallels the poor.
To serve the poor, you are able to live at a level that's commensurate with those who struggle economically in the community.
You probably have the gift of giving as well.
But not all those with the gift of giving have the gift of poverty.
They are different.
But if you have this gift, you are comfortable with giving up a lot
and just living at a very different kind of subsistence level
to empathize and to connect with people who are struggling in this world,
whether locally or globally.
And you don't do it with a hard heart.
You don't do it with anger or frustration or look at those people
and why do they have that and I don't have this.
You willingly enter that space to serve others.
You are to be used in the church and foreign missions.
Ministry locally to the underprivileged.
Perhaps ministry to the homeless and the refugees.
And do community outreach and things like that.
This is a tough one today in this world of incredible consumerism.
You are really living against the grain.
You are a standout if you have this gift.
But God has gifted some people to do that and enjoy that and to serve in this way.
And if you have this gift, I would challenge you to begin to move in those directions.
The next category under the green gifts is this issue of the human mind.
And there are three here.
The first one is the gift of knowledge.
And the way I see this gift operating, it enables Christians to be able to generate and to collect and analyze ideas that are important for making the church healthy.
Oftentimes, people with this gift also have the gift of teaching.
Those two often go hand in hand, and that makes sense.
If you have this gift of knowledge, you are interested in the ideas of moving towards the healthy church in North America.
And what does it take to move to those directions?
You are involved in church growth research, in presenting seminars, in writing, in long-term planning, in Bible study, theological studies,
creative outreach opportunities, things like that.
You have the gift of knowledge.
You just enjoy the ideas in terms of developing the kingdom.
And you have the ability to analyze and bring those together
and share them in a way that's persuasive and encouraging to others.
And you build the kingdom through harnessing these ideas.
It's a great, wonderful gift, as they all are.
And some of you have that gift in this room.
The gift of organization enables Christians to understand goals for specific areas of ministry
and to draft plans and set things up that allow you to be effective in reaching those goals.
The original word, as I looked at that, had to do with steering and piloting a ship.
The captain usually made the decision of where we were going as a general rule.
This is the direction.
But the person on the ship with this gift actually steered and worked with the crew
and got things organized so they could get from here to the other port.
They can organize and set things together and make it effective.
I don't think I have this gift.
And if you have it, I need you.
That's how the body works together.
Wisdom.
Wisdom is the gift that enables Christians to help others apply existing knowledge to specific situations.
You can take certain truths and apply it to their life in specific situations.
If you have the gift of wisdom, you need to be part of the counseling team.
You should be part of conflict resolution.
And thank God that's not been a big issue for us.
But there are times in the life of the body when it's time to resolve tensions
and people with wisdom are brought in to help those situations.
You can help, though, people as believers in career consulting,
in training courses, in gift consulting.
It's a big area for us.
As we process, if you will, people and learn what their gifts are
and work them through to help them discern these gifts,
we need people who have the gift of wisdom that can sit down with you
and hear your story and see what it says on the list
and begin to process what gifts you have
and where you can be used.
The gift of wisdom allows you to help in that process.
It should be used in seminars and church consulting
and all kinds of things like that.
It's the gift of wisdom.
Some of you have that gift in this room.
Now these last three I'm going to share
are ones that are newer to my thinking
and I'm going to simply put them out there
to see if you think this makes sense.
There's biblical backing for all of them,
but it's not been typically thought of in the traditional lists.
But the research that's going on in the area of spiritual gifts
is validating these gifts.
And I want to share them with you and get your feedback,
because some of you may have them.
I'd like to talk with you about them.
The first one here, under creative potential,
as a subtext, subheading, is this one.
The gift of artistic creativity.
Exodus 31, 2 Samuel 6, 1 Kings 7
Seem to elevate this gift of artistic creativity
This gift enables Christians to use artistic expression
For the building up of others in the church
Through artistic expression
You bless others and build up their faith in some way
The issue here is the creative element
You've been gifted by God to creatively minister to others,
whether through song or dance or writing or any other creative outlet.
The issue is not the medium in which you do it.
It's the ability to create and be creative.
Some possible places for that ministry to be used would be in public relations,
in the materials that go out in marketing, arts and crafts groups, drama, mime, interior design,
lyrics, musical composition, things like that.
The more I think about it and talk to people,
I think this gift really does operate in the church today.
The second one on these last three is the gift of craftsmanship.
Exodus 30, 2 Kings 12, 2 Chronicles 34, Acts 18.
Each of those seems to point that God blesses certain Christians
with the ability to use a trade or a craft for the good of the body of Christ.
Many of you are wonderful, gifted people with your hands.
And I really thank God for what you've done, not only in my life, but in the life of this church,
in supporting so many different kinds of ministries.
Many of you have trades and gifts with your hands.
If you have a spiritual gift of craftsmanship,
you are truly blessed, more than anything else, in using those gifts for the church.
You see the difference?
It has to do with building up the body of Christ is where that gift takes off.
And if you have this gift, we would love to see you help us with our buildings and our gardening,
in ministering to the community, in car repair and other jobs, maintenance issues.
You also might be used in foreign missions, short-term projects and things to other countries,
to help in building and using your trade for the body of Christ.
And this last one is the gift of music.
allows you to play or to sing
for the glory of God and the edification of others.
Some people sing with a beautiful voice.
Others sing with a beautiful voice
and God uses that voice to touch your life
and the lives of others in the church
in a very profound way.
There's something supernatural
about their ability to sing or to play.
That'd be the gift of music.
1 Samuel chapter 16, 1 Corinthians 14.
Colossians 3 seemed to point to that gift.
And if you have that gift, worship leading, instrumentalist, worship team,
street outreach, choir member, vocal soloist, those things,
you should be using that gift for the glory of God, the building up of the church.
So as we come in for a landing, which of these green gifts might you have?
In a couple of weeks, you're going to have an opportunity to really discern that.
October 6th will be an important day for the life of our church here.
You won't want to miss it.
But I want to ask you this question.
As you're thinking and praying through these gifts,
I want to ask the question,
will you commit before the Lord
that you will study and discern your spiritual gifts?
And that when you study and discern them,
that you will use them for God's glory
in serving and building up the church?
And when the congregation grabs those gifts
and really begins to pour into them
and let the Holy Spirit use them and run with them,
I really believe the church will make far and deep impact
in the life of the community in which we live.
I believe that people will be ministered to in profound ways,
ways that I, as one pastor, could never begin to reach,
never begin to make an impact,
but you can do it because God has gifted you to do so.
and I believe the community will change
that lives will change
that people will find Jesus and become whole
and that we'll see a whole missionary opportunity
just developing and exploding out from this place
when the people of God do the ministry of God
it's Ephesians chapter 4 all over again
the pastor empowers the people
and teaches and trains
that the people do ministry
and reach far and deep into this community
and I can't wait to liberate you
and send you out
and see what God does through you
and hold on
because you know the danger of this is
it gets out of control
because I can't control
everything that happens anymore
because things will happen out there
that I cannot manage anymore
and you know some pastors
really struggle with that
they want control
of everything
and the church stays small
because they're controlling
everything. But if
the Spirit has gifted you and filled you
it's my job to just release
you and come what may
let the Holy Spirit use you
and all kinds of people get saved
and developed and grown and get
healthy and it's not my
deal. It's God's deal.
And I'll be faithful to
train you and you be faithful
to use your gifts and we'll
just see what happens.
See how far and wide this church can stretch.
I think you'll be amazed at what he'll do through you.
But you know what?
It's risky, isn't it?
It's risky.
Because this requires that you get put in situations that are out of your control, perhaps,
and in places you never thought you'd be.
And then you have to pray,
Oh, Lord, use me now.
Fill me now.
Not in my strength, but yours.
What an exciting thing that is.
and what a joy you'll get
when you see God use you
to build the kingdom of God
there's nothing like it anywhere in the world
I hope you'll join us in the adventure
let's pray
dear God thank you
that you're teaching us
about the gifts that you have given to the church
and our continual prayer
is that we would be faithful
to discovering
and using what you have gifted us with
and that we'd risk
and step out in faith
and use those gifts,
stretch them, massage them,
work with them, grow in them.
And that, Father, we're going to pray
that you will produce great fruit
and that lives all over this community
will be changed because you use
the people of Fullerton First
to do great ministry.
Father, as a pastor,
I am excited to watch that process take place.
And I pray that we would be faithful to you
as you have been faithful to us.
Father, I pray that you would help me
with the issue of control,
that I'd step back and just train,
not try to hold it all in,
but let you accomplish your purposes with your people,
with the gifts that you have given.
And we'll trust you, Lord, for the fruit.
So, Lord, we're ready.
Use us.
Use us.
We pray all these things in the name of Jesus Christ
by his authority, thanking him for what he did for us on the cross.
So, Lord, we love you.
In Jesus' name, amen.
Amen.
I'm going to invite you to stand as we do as our custom.
